I deem it to be a duty which I owe to God and his church, to express my feelings and bear my testimony unto you, concerning certain things that are presented to you for your consideration; especially, the claims of elder Sidney Rigdon to the exclusive right to lead and govern the church of Latter-day Saints. I have carefully examined the trial which elder Rigdon has had before the authorities of the church in Nauvoo, as given in the Times and Seasons, Vol. V No 17, and I am satisfied that a righteous decision has been given in his case. I do not make these remarks without my reasons, and I will hereby give those reasons.

I will commence by asking where has elder Rigdon been since he made his flaming speech in Far West, which had a tendency to bring persecution upon the whole church, especially the head of it? Has he stood by the side of the prophet and patriarch as a true friend, to assist in carrying them through their trials, tribulations, and persecutions? Has he walked up into his place as a man of God, and stood beside the prophet as his counsellor? Has he in any way, been a pillar or support to the church, from that day until this? Has he sustained the cause, and used an influence to spread the work abroad with dignity and honour, for the last five years of his life? Or has the prophet, in any point of view, leaned upon him as a counsellor, a staff, or support, for the last five years? Or has the prophet Joseph found elder Rigdon in his councils, where he organized the quorum of the Twelve a few months before his death, to prepare them for the endowment? And when they received their endowment, and actually received the keys of the kingdom of God, and oracles of God, keys of revelation, and the pattern of heavenly things; and thus addressing the twelve, exclaimed, “…” I say, has this been the case with elder Rigdon, in any wise. No, no, verily no; but the reverse, until he had become like a millstone upon the back of Joseph Smith, the prophet, seer, and revelator. And I hereby bear my testimony, that I heard the said Joseph Smith declare, that elder Rigdon had become like a millstone upon his back—a dead weight—and he had carried him long enough, and must throw him off; and in my hearing requested one of the quorum of the Twelve to bring him up before the Church, that he might be dealt with according to the law of the Church, that he might be cut off as a dead branch, and no longer encumber the tree, as there was sufficient testimony against him. But through the pleadings of brother Hyrum Smith and others, he has been spared. Elder Brigham Young has been his friend—spoke in his favour, in consequence of his age and former standing, hoping that he might reform, get the spirit of the work, and magnify his calling. Upon this principle he has been sustained long, until the branch became twice dead, and necessary to be severed from the tree. Elder Rigdon, for the last five years of his life, has mostly been shut up in the post-office; confined himself mostly to his own temporal affairs, manifesting but little interest in the affairs of the church; and when any harm or report was in circulation unfavourable to the cause, if we could judge at all from the course he pursued, it had a tendency to increase trouble and disturbance, instead of decreasing it. It is true, that elder Rigdon attended some of the councils that president Smith held with the Twelve and others, before his death, while giving them instructions; but I heard president Smith say, that he came in without his wish or invitation, as he had no confidence in him. Elder Rigdon and his friends would now claim, before the church and the world, that he holds the keys of the kingdom of God of the last dispensation, above the Twelve, the church, etc. I am ready to admit before the whole church and the world, that he does hold one key beyond the Twelve; one that they do not hold—one that God never held, nor Jesus Christ, nor any true prophet, patriarch, or apostle; Joseph and Hyrum Smith were utter strangers to it. And if we can judge from his own mouth, according to the testimony given on his trial, we would suppose that Lucifer, who made war in heaven, was its author; and that it had been handed down unto the present day, and with it elder Rigdon has unlocked his heart, and pourtrayed before our eyes what was in it. What is it? Hear it, all ye Latter-day Saints! Listen, O Earth, and judge the fruits of this Key. He threatens to turn traitor, publish against the church in public journals, intimating that he would bring a mob upon the church, stir up the world against the saints, and bring distress upon them, etc. This ought to be a sufficient reason for any true hearted Latter-day Saint to turn away from him with disgust, and treat all such men and principles according to their dessert, which is, to let them entirely alone; for a more despicable principle never existed in heaven, earth, or hell, than to prove a traitor to our God, our cause, and our friends, and bring distress upon the innocent, and that too by turning against the very cause that a man has spent a portion of his life to build up, and declared, while in the faith, that it was true and righteous; for in all such cases there is entirely a misrepresentation of truth and facts, in order to accomplish the intended evil, while a true statement of facts would advance the cause. This same principle was manifest in the case of Lucifer, Judas, Arnold, and many apostates in this church, who, when they could not get their own ends answered, would threaten to bring mobs upon the church, and in some instances have done so.