Wilford Woodruff, Leaves from My Journal
https://archive.org/stream/leavesfrommyjour00wood/leavesfrommyjour00wood_djvu.txt

The first day of May, 1834, was appointed for the Camp of 
Zion to start from Kirtland to go up to Missouri for the redemption of their brethren. Only a small portion of the 
Camp was ready. The Prophet told those who were ready to 
go to New Portage and wait for the remainder. I left, in company with about twenty men, with the baggage wagons. At 
night we pitched our tents. I went to the top of a hill and 
looked down upon the camp of Israel. I knelt upon the ground 
and prayed. I rejoiced and praised the Lord that I had lived 
to see some of the tents of Israel pitched, and a company gathered by the commandment of God to go up and help redeem Zion. 

We tarried at New Portage until the 6th, when we were 
joined by the prophet and eighty-five more men. The day 
before they arrived, while passing through the village of Middlebury, the people tried to count them; but the Lord multiplied 
them in the eyes of the people, so that those who numbered 
them said there were four hundred of them. 

On the 7th, Brother Joseph organized the camp, which consisted of about one hundred and thirty men. On the following day we continued our journey. We pitched our tents at night 
and had prayers night and morning. The Prophet told us 
every day what we should do. 

We were nearly all young men, gathered from all parts of 
the country, and strangers to each other; but we got acquainted 
very soon, and had a happy time together. 

It was a great school to us to be led by a Prophet of God a 
thousand miles through cities, towns, villages, and through 
the wilderness. 

When persons stood by to count us they could not tell how 
many we numbered ; some said five hundred, others one 
thousand. 

Many were astonished as we passed through their towns. One 
lady ran to her door, pushed her spectacles to the top of her 
head, raised her hands, and exclaimed: "What under heavens has broken loose?" She stood in that position the last I 
saw of her. 

The published history of Zion's Camp gives an account of 
the bones of a man which we dug out of a mound. His name 
was Zelph. The Lord showed the Prophet the history of the 
man in a vision. The arrow, by which he was killed, was found 
among his bones. One of his thigh bones was broken by a 
stone slung in battle. That bone was put into my wagon, 
and I carried it to Clay county, Missouri, and buried it in 
the earth. 

The Lord delivered Israel in the days of Moses by dividing the Red Sea, so they went over dry shod, When their 
enemies tried to do the same, the water closed upon them and 
they were drowned. The Lord delivered Zion's Camp from 
their enemies on the 19th of June, 1834, by piling up the 
waters in Fishing River forty feet in one night, so our enemies could not cross. He also sent a great hail-storm which 
broke them up and sent them seeking for shelter. 

The camp of Zion arrived at Brother Burk's, in Clay County, 
Missouri, on the 24th of June, 1834, and we pitched our tents 
on the premises. He told some of the brethren of my company that he had a spare room that some of us might occupy 
if we would clean it. Our company accepted the offer, and 
fearing some other company would get it first, left all other 
business and went to work, cleaned out the room, and immediately spread down our blankets, so as to hold a right to the 
room. It was but a short time afterwards that our brethren, 
who were attacked by cholera, were brought in and laid upon 
our beds. None of us ever used those blankets again, for they 
were buried with the dead. So we gained nothing but experience by being selfish, and we lost our bedding.