One says that it was written by Martin Harris and Oliver Cowdery, from the
mouth of Joseph Smith, Jr., as he looked at a stone, with his face in a hat;
the other, that it was written, and altered by Sidney Rigdon, from the
"..."!! One makes it out that it was written in Harmony
township, Susquehanah county, by Martin Harris and Oliver Dowdery; the other,
that it was written in Conneaut, Ohio, first by Solomon Spaulding, and
afterwards altered by Sidney Rigdon, in Pittsburg, Pennsylvania!!! So much,
then, for the agreement of the testimony which is brought forth as FACTS
concerning the coming forth of the Book of Mormon; and yet these gentlemen are
both of them good men; both of them accredited ministers of the Methodist
connexion; and both of them have got what they call FACTS, diametrically
opposed to each other as light is from darkness. But Mr. Heys has got good
testimony to his account, so has Mr. Livesey; and I suppose that because both
of the testimonies are good, they must both of them be true—although the one
contradicts the other—especially as they were supported and held forth by
such pious, holy men.

I shall leave Messrs. Heys and Livesey, then, to settle this difficulty
between themselves, and after the one has proved the other’s statement
false, I will prove his to be false. I would, however, give these gentlemen
one piece of advice, and that is, if they value their standing in society, to
be careful for the future to abide by the truth, and let the Word of God be
their standard, and to leave the "..." lest they should be
found when the destinies of men shall be fixed, among those that love, and
make lies; for, be it remembered, that the "..." as well as
the makers of them, "..."

Is it not a pity that men standing at the head of their flocks as "..." should be necessitated to have recourse to such low subterfuges
as those to defend their falling creeds with? Surely such things are ...

Mr. Heys seems to have forgot the time when Methodist ministers were belied
and slandered, as we are now belied and slandered by him. He must recollect
that it is not long ago since the finger of scorn was pointed at the
Methodists, and the lip of reproach and tongue of scandal were employed
against them. I would have him to remember "..." Then they were despised,
persecuted, and cast out; but it is different with them now, and why
different? Our Saviour says—"..." John 15:19. How is the gold become
dim; and the fine gold, how is it changed? Surely Messrs. John Wesley, John
Nelson, Fletcher, and Bramwell, who were ornaments to the Methodist society,
would have been ashamed to have been found in the situation to which Messrs
Heys and Livesey have placed themselves in.

I would then apply to Mr. Heys the passage of scripture he has quoted in his
circular, "..." and advise him to abide by the truth, for the Word of God
will be true when every man will be found a liar.

I certainly was at the first a little surprised at the malignant attacks that
were made upon me by the ministers of the Methodist order; on pondering over
the circumstance I was reminded of the story of the pheasant and the dunghill
fowls, it was a little surprised that it should be so ill used, being a
stranger among them; but when it saw that they fell out among themselves, it
quietly submitted to its fate. So, When I recollected that these gentlemen
were always bespattering one another, and that I had seen two periodicals
called The Watchman, and Watchman’s Lantern, the pages of which are yet
stained with foul names, epithets, and testimonials concerning conduct the
most disgraceful, and proceedings as dark as ever blackened the history of any
church, and that these were good men (writing against good men) that used this
foul-mouthed slander, or truth, I don’t know which, I was not surprised that
they should call a stranger—"..." etc, etc. I see in all these
things the Word of God fulfilling.

