We will support the lie that we have commenced, 15 v,—and the thing was
reported among all the Jews, and of course is believed until this day. Why?
Because they were such honourable, holy, devout, and pious men that testified
to it; and as Mr. H has charged me with "..."—so the Pharisees
charged our Saviour, and supported their accusations with lies.

But now for the story:—"..." says Mr. H., "..."

This is the way, then, that Mr. Heys, in his story, accounts for the coming
forth of the Book of Mormon. But as I happen to have in my possession, a
document, written by another Methodist preacher, (for Mr. Heys is not the
first Methodist preacher who has been trying to "..." 2 Tim 4:4 newspaper
stories, etc.) The document referred to is called "..."—and its truth
attested by Benjamin Frankland, John Bedford, Wesleyan ministers, Preston,
24th July, 1838.

What is Mr. Livesey’s statement, then, concerning the origin, and coming
forth of the Book of Mormon—for he has his story too—and his, he states,
is a statement of "..." as well as Mr. Heys’ account; and he is also
a good man as well as Mr. Heys, taking the testimony of their preachers for
it, for two Methodist ministers testify that he is personally known to them,
and that he is an accredited minister of the Methodist Episcopal church in
America. But unfortunately for these good men, their testimony does not agree
any more than the testimony of the false witnesses who were brought against
our Saviour. But now for the story.

Page fifth of Mr. L’s "..."—"..."

This, then, is the account given us by Mr. Livesey of the origin of the Book
of Mormon. He makes it out that the Rev. Solomon Spaulding wrote a novel
called the "..." and that this Rev. Novel Writer’s
production was the document from which the Book of Mormon was taken—that
this was the origin of it. That this was put into the hands of a printer of
the name of Lamdin; that S. Rigdon obtained the manuscript from Lamdin, and
after a few years spent in rewriting and altering it, it was ushered forth to
the world by Joseph Smith, Jr., Rigdon, and others, as a revelation from God.
"...", says he, "..."

The following is Mr. Heys’ story:—"..."

Which, then, of these accounts, I would ask, is true? One says that Joseph
Smith, Jr. is the author and publisher of the Book of Mormon the other says
that Solomon Spaulding is the author of it!

