To the Editor of the Star. Liverpool, Feb. 27, 1841.

Dear Brother,—Having perused in your number of last month, some strictures
upon Mr. Hainings’ "..." I conceived that a few remarks from me upon that subject might not
be nninteresting, as I am acquainted with the whole of the circumstances of
the coming forth of that publication: it was my labours in Douglas (Isle of
Man,) that first gave rise to his important discoveries, and brought into
existence that production, which for ought I know may be considered of
importance among the friends of sectarianism at a distance from home; but
those who are acquainted with its relations, its parentage, the time, manner,
and circumstances of its coming into being consider it lighter than vanity;
and it is treated by all intelligent men with the contempt that such
productions deserve.

Permit me, sir, to mention a few circumstances that took place previous to the
delivery of "..." about the middle of last September I
visited the Isle of Man, accompanied by Elder Hyrum Clark, and preached in the
town of Douglas, where I hired the Wellington room, a large hall capable of
containing one thousand persons; and commenced delivering a course of lectures
to attentive and respectable congregations. I had not proceeded above two or
three nights before I was interrupted in a very indecorous, anti-christian,
and ungentlemanly manner by a party of Primitive Methodist Preachers and a
Wesleyan Methodist Local Preacher, whose conduct was not very dissimilar from
that of the pious and zealous disorderlies that you speak of in Bolton, who
were bound over to keep the peace, and who if they had obtained justice would
unquestionably have shared the same fate; and, had it not been for some
gentlemen present who interfered, who possessed more prudence and
discretion than religious bigotry, it would have been difficult to prevent an
indignant public from putting them out of doors. The next day I received a
challenge from the head champion, Mr. Hamilton, a Primitive Methodist
itinerant preacher, which was so surcharged with calumny and vile abuse that
if I had not been a stranger there, and known that the public knew nothing
about me, or my principles but what they obtained through a false medium, I
should have treated with contempt; as it was I submitted to it, not with a
view of having my principles investigated, for I knew that they were out of
the reach of his critical acumen,—not to have him detect error, for I was
aware that he was utterly incapable of discerning the difference between truth
and error; nor had I the least idea of teaching him, for I felt convinced with
Solomon, that "..." but merely to remove public prejudice, and to let it be
known that I courted publicity and light, and was not afraid of bringing my
principles to the touchstone of truth.

This is the same individual, sir, whose extensive acquaintance with history
enabled him to inform the public that in some countries where there was no
water they baptized with oil!!! about which opinion I had the hardihood to be
a little skeptical despite of his great proficiency in historical lore; for I
was foolish enough to wonder (as any old woman would do who did not possess
the same knowledge of history as himself,) what they made use of as a beverage
in that country!! as oil would not be very palatable to drink at all times,
and also what they cooked their victuals with. It was the same individual, sir,
who on being asked his authority to preach answered "..." I was
led to tell him that I was of that opinion before, but that he had confirmed
my impressions; that I had thought from the beginning that God had nothing to
do

with sending him out. Yet foolish, ignorant, and untaught as he was, there are
those, sir, (who think that because the Scriptures says "..." that any and every person
is qualified to preach the gospel merely because they are fools, whether God
calls them or not;) who had it not been for this exposure, might have mistaken
him for a wise man and have thought that he was called of God.—The result of
that discussion as taken from the Manx Liberal is found in your number for
November.

The public began then to see that the doctrine of the Latter-Day Saints was
not so awful and blasphemous, as it had been represented to be by some of
these pious men, which excited the jealousy of a Mr. Hays, a Wesleyan
Methodist Superintendent Preacher, whose craft was in danger, and who saw
clearly that truth would not destroy truth; and having no better weapon,
commenced propagating falsehood by publishing a statement purporting to be
made by a Mr. Hale, Joseph Smith’s father-in-law, professing to give an
account of the character of Joseph Smith, and of the coming forth of the Book
of Mormon: but as he was not acquainted with a document containing some other
lies published by Mr. Livesey, a Rev. brother of his, which also gave an
account of the coming forth of the Book of Mormon; it so happened that they
did not agree in their statement in regard to its author, origin, or
coming forth; so for the benefit of the public I published the counter
statement of his Rev. brother, whose testimonies did no more agree than the
testimony of the false witnesses that appeared against our Saviour. He then
published another and vainly attempted to hide his shame, which was replied to
by me in a tract called "..." He then
published another and I answered in one entitled "..." (all of which may be
had at the "...")

About the same time arose another defender of the faith, a Doctor Curran, who
attacked me in the public press, and I answered him through the same medium,
which may be seen in full in the Manx Sun and Liberal of that date, for
several successive weeks. Two of my answers to him are found in the Nov. and
Dec. numbers of the "..." The Doctor is a learned gentleman, a connoisseur
in religion, a sectarian anatomist, who knows how to dissect better than to
put together, or unite the system: he had stood some time in the town and
vicinity as the champion in polemics; when he threw down the gauntlet scarce
any one could be found who had the hardihood to take it up. Mistaking these
for some of the wild chimeras and dogmas of men, he made several furious
onsets, but found himself as frequently repulsed, without having sufficient
honesty to acknowledge the truth; he retired feeble, helpless, and maimed from
the field. I have often, sir, been surprised at the weakness of the arguments
that are made use of against us even by men of literary attainments, and of
great talent when employed in any other cause. The Doctor further stated, that
"..." referring to our opposition
to what he considered to be truth (alias sectarianism and false doctrine); and
yet although he intimated that pure religion had been revived, he elsewhere
stated that there never was a time when the church was more "..." hence we are all right and all wrong; we have
something Godlike; yet this Godlike something is ignorant, unhealthy,
corrupt!!! He also expressed a sorrow that I should have been attacked by my
opponents on the only true point of my doctrine, viz. baptism,"..."the only true doctrine,"..."invisible without
body or parts;"..." of the
Methodists and worship in their temple.—[278] In this predicament without
congregation or influences, some Methodist local preachers and others who knew
his situation well, fearful that their fabric was falling, and that their
zealous Mr. Heys would not be able to prevent the wreck, put their heads
together to combine against what they considered to be their common foe;
premised to assist in pecuniary measures, and made use of the Rev. Mr. Haining
as their tool, to do what they could not get Mr. Heys to do; either to meet me
in public debate, or to deliver public lectures against my principles, (as on
his publishing those before-mentioned falsehoods, I challenged him to a public
investigation, and he refused. Mr. Haining in his turn wanted to increase his
congregation, and thinking that the present excitement that existed in the
religious community in that place, would be a favourable opportunity for doing
so commenced his lectures, (although he stated to a gentleman in Douglas after
hearing me for some time, that it would be better for the ministers to let me
alone, as they could not gainsay the doctrines that I advanced). Nor was he
mistaken in his views in regard to those matters, for numbers of the
interested part of the community, although they had differed heretofore among
themselves, were ready to cry out when their false principles were attacked,
"..." and were surprised to
find out that every body did not know that sectarianism fell down from heaven,
and that all the world worshipped their Diana. Mr. Haining took care, however,
to chose a time for his lectures when he thought that I could not attend—on
Sunday evenings. I managed however to go to his first one, and answered it on
a week night, in the following week to a crowded congregation, and Mr. Haining
himself present; as he had stated in his lecture that he wished to act fairly.

I desired him then, if he was sincere in his statements, to alter his nights
of lecturing, that I could attend, or otherwise to meet me face to face before
the public, substantiate his arguments, and prove the Book of Mormon, or any
of the principles that I believed in to be false if he could; and as many
other ministers were present who had frequently attacked me behind my back, I
challenged the whole or any of them to do it; not sir, that I am fond of
braggadocia, or a display of championship or words, but to stop the
foul-mouthed slander that had been industriously circulated by many of these
gentlemen, and to deliver the truth from their unhallowed grasp. But all
attempts to bring him to honourable terms were altogether fruitless: he could
do best alone in his own pulpit, (where I was going to say, no one could
oppose him or question the truth of what he said) but so notoriously false,
unscriptural, and absurd, were some of the principles that he advanced, and
statements that he made, that even one of his own society rose up in the
meeting, and told him that what he stated was false. As I had a large
congregation of my own to attend to, and could not consistently leave my
meeting, I got a reporter to attend to his meeting for two Sunday evenings,
and then in the week night gave another lecture in answer to his, but so weak,
irrelavent, so far fetched, and so foreign to the point were most of his
arguments, that I considered it only like beating the air to answer them, and
that it was a burlesque upon religion, [279] and an insult to the public to
call them together to listen to such unmeaning nonsense, and I told a crowded
congregation then assembled, that unless he, or some of the ministers of
Douglas, would meet me face to face, I should not impose upon their good sense
in listening to such stuff; I should consider that their own fabric was bad,
their foundation false, their principles untenable,

that they were convinced themselves that their statements were untrue, and
that they "..." As my principles had been wantonly attacked, my motives impugned, and
misrepresentation, calumny and abuse been gratuitously heaped upon me by them,
and none of them (but Mr. H.) had the hardihood to come forward and
substantiate his charges, prove his assertions, or in any wise make good his
statements; but that they had left their offspring like the ostrich did its
eggs, either to hatch of themselves, or to be trodden under foot by any passer
by.

I never once thought that Mr. Haining would have attempted to publish those
lectures with any design to militate against the truth, after making so
puerile an attack in Douglas, for (e.g.) one of his lectures was principally
taken up in proving that the bible is true; this of course we believe in as
well as him; one of his arguments in support of the bible is—"..." this we also believe in, and as I
told him the only difference that there is between him and us, is, that he
believes in a changeable God and we in an unchangeable one; he believes that
God did reveal himself formerly, but does not now; and we believe that he now
gives revelations, visions, prophecy, &c., as formerly. He next goes on to
state that the bile is "..."
we believe the two first of these statements, but feel convinced that if Mr.
Haining does that he cannot believe his last assertion—that it is "..." for the bible speaks of more than twenty books that we have not
got; and "..." and a "..." cannot testify to a
falsehood. It would be fruitless for me to follow him through all his
meanderings, and would be foreign to my purpose at the present time. I would
just remark that the truth came off victorious in the Isle of Man, and
although I may say with Paul "..." yet I
feel thankful to my heavenly Father that I have escaped unhurt. The standard
of eternal truth is planted there, many are rejoicing in the liberty of the
gospel of Jesus Christ, having followed their Lord and Master into the waters
of baptism, and many more are believing, and on the eve of coming forth. Since
I left there Elder Blakslee from America has been labouring there
successfully, he is now on his way to the land of his fathers, and Priest Wm.
Mitchell from Liverpool is gone to labour there: Elder Joseph Fielding is also
on his way there. There has been about seventy baptized in all; thus in spite
of all the combined powers of earth and hell, the "..."
the inhabitants of that island will hear the sound of the everlasting gospel,
and all the honest in heart will be gathered out.

The work of the Lord is progressing in Liverpool, and many enquiring the way
of salvation; we baptized eight last week, and sixteen this week.

I remain yours in the everlasting covenant, JOHN TAYLOR.

