John Taylor, “A short account of the murders…”, 1855, part 1
(was this same stuff published in the St. Louis Gazette in 1839?)
https://archive.org/stream/shortaccountofmu01lyma#page/n0/mode/2up

A short account of the murders, robberies, burnings, thefts, and other outrages committed by the mob and militia of the state of Missouri, upon the Latter Day Saints. The persecutions they have endured for their Religion, and the Banishment from that State by the authorities thereof.

As many reports have been put in circulation relative to the circumstances that have taken place in Missouri, concerning the persecutions of the Mormons, (so called,) and as the public are unable to arrive at any just conclusions relative to the events that have taken place, I thought it best to lay this short account before the world, as I was an eye and an ear witness to most of the things mentioned in this account. And what I did not witness, I have documentary evidence or testimony that could not be impeached from those that did see and hear.

It is almost unnecessary for me to state those circumstances have been to us, of a very painful nature, and calculated to harrow up every feeling of the soul. That every possible means have been made use of, in order to misrepresent us as a people, calumniate our characters, rob us of our rights as citizens, take away our liberty of conscience, and deprive us of all those privileges for which our fathers bled. For this, ingenuity has been put to the rack, and calumny has spun its last thread. The difficulties under which our people have labored ever since their settlement in Jackson county, in Missouri, have been nothing more nor less than religious persecutions; for had our people violated the law, that jealousy with which they have been watched, would not have been backward in accusing the aggressors; nor would the power have been wanting to execute the law as constables and lawyers, priests and magistrates, civilians and officers have been arrayed against us, in a great measure from that time to the present, and had it been otherwise, there was no need of their declaring their determination, as expressed in one of their resolutions in Jackson county, to “expell them peacably if we can, forcibly if we must.” And the very fact of our people being dispossessed of their lands in Jackson county, and not now being allowed to inherit them, is a standing monument of our wrongs, and a circumstance that would make every true republican to blush. That principle of intolerance and religious bigotry has followed us, from that time to this, and has grown with our growth, until it has ended in the authorities of the State being arrayed against us. Relative to the difficulties that have recently transpired, the first commencement of them was at Gallitin, in Davies county, where a number of our brethren were assembled in order to exercise their elective franchise. They were struck at and insulted by a number of men who seemed determined to deprive them of that privilege which our Constitution guarantees to eveyr free citizen. Indignant at such treatment, they would not thus be repelled, but stood up in the defence of their rights, when an affray took place, which ended in two or three being wounded on each side. This excitement it would appear was raised chiefly by an inflammatory speech being delivered by Wm. Pendleton, one of the candidates. A report came to Far West, that several of our brethren were wounded, and that two were killed, and that our adversaries would not allow their bodies to be buried. Upon which a number of our brethren repaired to Davies county for the purpose of ascertaining the facts of the case; not in a large body as has been reported, but in small companies of three or four each, at their own discretion, and not at the command of Joseph Smith Jr. But as many in this place had friends there, they felt anxious for their welfare, and repaired to the place in order to satisfy themselves as to the truth of the matter.
