We took leave of them and of the good people where we had been preaching,
having first sent an appointment by the mail carrier, that if the inhabitants
of Washington would get together we would address them that evening.

We entered the town at dark, stopped at a hotel, called for lodging and supper
and a room for ourselves; and asked the landlord if a meeting had been got up
for us. He said the mail carrier brought the news of our appointment, but he
believed it had been neglected to be given out; was very sorry, made many
apologies, and still offered to have the bell rung and the people assembled if
we wished. We told him we were glad of an opportunity to rest, and did not
wish a meeting at so late an hour.

We retired to our room and made no further acquaintance. Next morning on
taking leave, we asked what was to pay. He answered, “not anythin,” said
we were welcome to his hospitality at any time, and bid us call again.

Leaving Washington, we were next entertained by a very hospitable preacher of
the Christian order, whose name I have forgotten. We tarried at his house a
week or two, and preached to crowded congregations in all the region; he
frequently going with us to introduce us and open the way. While here, having
a little leisure between appointments, I went alone and on foot to the town of
Madison, about nine miles from his house. My design was to get out an
appointment and preach, which came to pass the same evening in the following
manner: I stepped into a hotel, they were all at dinner, I placed the Book of
Mormon on a public table and sat down to read a newspaper; soon the boarders
came out, and one by one looked at the Book, and inquired whose it was; soon
the landlord came out, who I learned was so very deaf that one could only be
heard by placing mouth to ear and shouting at the very top of the voice. He
caught up the Book and inquired, “Whose is this?” I arose, placed my arm
round his neck, and my mouth close to his ear, and shouted, “It is mine, and
I have come to preach!” This was so loud that it almost alarmed the town. He
welcomed me to entertainment free of charge, had the court house opened, the
town notified, and evening found me in the judge’s seat, a reporter in the
clerk’s desk, and a crowded audience. I had good liberty and all seemed much
interested.

After a few days we resumed our journey, and in May arrived in Kirtland, where
I again met my wife after an absence of one year and seven months.

