We visited an old Baptist deacon by the name of Hamlin. After hearing of an
appointment for evening, he began to tell of a book, a strange book, a very
strange book in his possession, which had just published. This book, he said,
purported to have been originally written on plates either of gold or brass,
by a branch of the tribes of Israel; and to have been discovered and
translated by a young man near Palmyra, in the State of New York, by the aid
of visions, or the ministry of angels. I inquired of him how or where the book
was to be obtained. He promised me the perusal of it, at his house the next
day, if I would call. I felt a strange interest in the book. I preached that
evening to a small audience, who appeared to be interested in the truths which
I endeavored to unfold to them in a clear and lucid manner from the
Scriptures. Next morning I called at his house, where, for the first time, my
eyes behold the Book of Mormon—that book of books—that record which
reveals the antiquities of the New World back to the remotest ages, and which
unfolds the destiny of its people and the world for all time to come—that
Book which contains the fulness of the gospel of a crucified and risen
Redeemer—that Book which reveals a lost remnant of Joseph, and which was the
principal means, in the hands of God, of directing the entire course of my
future life.

I opened it with eagerness, and read its title page. I then read the testimony
of several witnesses in relation to the manner of its being found and
translated. After this I commenced its contents by course. I read all day;
eating was a burden, I had no desire for food; sleep was a burden when the
night came, for I preferred reading to sleep.

As I read, the spirit of the Lord was upon me, and I knew and comprehended
that the book was true, as plainly and manifestly as a man comprehends and
knows he exists. My joy was now full, as it were, and I rejoiced sufficiently
to more than pay me for all the sorrows, sacrifices and toils of my life. I
soon determined to see the young man who had been the instrument of its
discovery and translation.

