William Smith, “Faithful Warning to the Latter Day Saints”, Missouri Reporter, Vol IV, no 237, 25 Oct 1845
http://www.sidneyrigdon.com/dbroadhu/MO/miscstl3.htm#102545

FAITHFUL WARNING TO THE LATTER DAY SAINTS.
MR. EDITOR: -- Feeling it a duty I owe to an honest public, as well as to thousands of Mormon Saints, so called, scattered throughout the world -- kind friends too, to whom I have preached the pure principles of truth as contained in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, whereby they have been introduced into the kingdom of God on Earth -- in view of happiness, the salvation of souls, the enjoyment of the unalloyed glories of heaven, virtue and morality -- feeling it to be my duty to warn all such, as far as my voice can be heard throughout the American land and Europe, that during the religious career of my two brothers, who were murdered in Carthage jail, none of the impurities existed that have crept into the Church since their deaths: I wish to beg a place in your columns for the insertion of this article, as I am deprived of the privilege of speaking through the Mormon oracles (papers.) I do this, to correct the evils that now exist among that people denominated Saints in Nauvoo -- a place that for the last six months has been a resort for rogues and scoundrels, and a covert for thieves and murderers. Jack Reding, the supposed murderer of Arvine Hodge, is one of Brigham Young's strikers, and has been under the protection of Young during the past summer, in Nauvoo, and is now hid there unless he has recently fled or been taken into custody. It is well known that there is a gang of murderers and thieves, whose members are scattered up and down the Mississippi river. The death of Davenport, of Arvine Hodge, and of one or two others in Iowa, has called, and justly, for an investigation of these matters. It is further well known that, since the proclamation of Brigham Young upon the stand before hundreds of people -- "that the murderer of Arvine Hodge had done a charitable deed, that he hoped all such men as Hodge would run against just such snags, and that the man who would follow the assassin to the Mississippi was a fool" -- that since that proclamation, Jack Reding has been running at large in Nauvoo and been left unrestrained to continue his works of destruction and ravages upon his fellow men. It is to show you, my brethren, the secret plans and devices of those who have assured the leadership of the Church in that place, that I now write. They have formed themselves into a combination, called a city police, with other private councils, &c., &c., by which to suppress the liberty of speech and endanger the lives of any who dare oppose their unhallowed purposes, or oppose their deep-laid plans to fleece the unwary and [more] faithful of the Mormon Church, who through hope of heaven are willing to make any sacrifice that duty might seem to require. 

At this important crisis of Mormon interests, when every exertion is being made by those eleven wolves in sheep's clothing, to continue the distress of their poor brethren, by decoying them into the wilderness, thereby the better enabling these ambitious tyrants to carry out their plans of robbery and murder to increase their own wealth and make the poor poorer -- at this crisis, I take the liberty to warn you, our brethren, in due time, that you may flee the awful vortex, and not be led by such men, or such false hopes as are held out in the circular of the so-called "Mormon Twelve," who, since the death of Joseph and Hiram, have contemplated the removal to the west, but not by the prophecy of Joseph or his counsel. The name of Joseph is made use of, to carry out their plans, without the least authority; for Joseph taught no such doctrine. You must be cautious and believe no such things, and thus escape the devices of Satan! Save yourselves and property! You have only to look back a few short years or months, to see the sufferings of the Saints, many of whom during the past summer in Nauvoo have lived on potato tops and salt, and been constantly called upon by those men, until the last cent is gone. When all is gone, they will tell you it is the Lord's -- you must sacrifice -- that this is the only way to exalted glory. If you call for the return of money loaned, you are treated as dissenters, whittled and driven from their midst as unworthy members of their society, disgraced and poor, although once worth your thousands. 

And will you, brethren and sisters, still be guided and flattered by them into further troubles and ruin? What credulity! My God, I would ask you, can it be possible that the experience of the past is not enough to show you the bad counsel and the impolitic course of such a move as is now advised? Look at the distressed, the aged and the infirm -- again to settle in so large a body! I should think the folly of such wild and imaginary schemes had been too plainly told in the history of the past. Again, it is evident that the designs of those men will ruin all who follow them. This manifest in the self-righteous and so very christian epistle which they have addressed of late to the Churches. "Israel," they say, "must be the head and not the tail." To translate this into its true meaning, it should read "Mormons must be the head," which plainly shows the reason why there are so many broils and evils attending them, and why those assumed heads wish to leave a land of government and go to some more infant and weakened power, in order to hide themselves from their crimes and defy the authority of every land, wherever they settle -- that they may be the head and have the sole control and under their own assumption of power, shield themselves from the penalty of their brutal acts, by their tyranny and absolute rule. So let me warn you again, my dear brethren, against these uncalled-for moves, and speculating plans to rob you of your gold, your house, your wives and children, and to make you slaves. And what, again I say, can you expect by following such men? Their struggle for power -- to rule and govern, will bring down upon their heads the same evils that have more recently distressed that people, or the Latter Day Saints. No savage nation under Heaven, would suffer or endure it. However much civilized the Spaniards, the Mexicans or the Indians may be, they would rush against them with one general consent, and an indiscriminate slaughter would be the result. 

Then, brethren and sisters, fathers and mothers, and all, take warning! Be advised by one who is your friend! What, I ask, prevents the discrimination of our holy religion at home, in different parts of these United States, in towns, cities and villages. The industrious mechanic, the farmer and the soldier, as well as the humble minister of the Gospel, can find sufficient employment within our own civilized borders, in the land that our fathers have bought, and on the soil so richly wrought as to afford us all the comforts of life and the society of friends and of home. Our children could be educated here, and we could become a delightful people, beloved and respected by all; our society and schools could flourish, a delight to the nations. If our religion is good, it will benefit our neighbors; and if it be of God, it will be a light not hid under a bushel, but put on a candle-stick to give light unto all men and love our neighbors as ourselves. To do this, we must settle where, in different bodies and parcels, we can teach them our doctrine, and like our neighbors and brethren according to the flesh, build comfortable houses for worship, and study the course of economy and the art to please by works of righteousness. Thus our neighbors will bless us, and we become a glorious people in the midst of the earth, filled with joy and peace, and Josephites, in deed and in truth; for it is thus the voice of the martyred Joseph speaks to all that respect his name or hold his memory sacred and dear; but not in favor of the wild and wicked plans of these apostate eleven, for their plans Joseph does not approve, nor do they have his approval. 

Ever and anon, you will hear from me again, dear brethren! 

With sentiments of esteem, I once more subscribe myself,
                                Your friend and brother,
                                      And fellow-laborer in the
                                            Gospel of Jesus Christ,
                                                  And Patriarch of the Church,
                                                        WILLIAM SMITH. 

P. S. Will all the humane editors copy the above and give it a wide circulation through the world, thereby obliging their obedient and humble servant?
                                                              W. S.