William Smith, letter in Sangamo Journal, Vol XVI, no 13, 5 Nov 1846
http://www.sidneyrigdon.com/dbroadhu/IL/sang1845.htm#110546

To the Editor of the Sangamo Journal: 

     It is proper that the citizens of Hancock County should know the real causes of their present troubles. A few words on this subject, I think, will unriddle the whole matter to the understandings of the people, and pull the cloak off the monster that does all the mischief. The fact is, Mr. Editor, the Twelve, that were former Mormons, are at the bottom of all the difficulties. These Twelve men have chosen three men of their own stamp as their secret agents -- spiritual wife believers, law of Moses believers, consecration believers, and believers in the doctrine of secret murder to save the souls of men; as for instance, the death of Irvin and Amos Hodge, a Mr. Daniels and a Mr. Wilcox. Irvin Hodge was murdered within twelve feet of Brigham Young's door. Amos Hodge was murdered, it is said, between Montrose and Nashway by Brigham Young's guard, who pretended at the time to escort him out of Nauvoo, for his safety, under cover of women's clothes, who then pretended that he had run away. Mr. Wilcox, a peaceable, quiet citizen of Illinois -- not a Mormon -- was taken by this same guard in Nauvoo, under suspicion that he was an Anti-Mormon, and that he was in the affray of June 27th, 1844, at Carthage -- into the Masonic Hall, and was never heard of more. Mr. Daniels was the man that gave evidence at Carthage Court and published a pamphlet containing an account of what he saw at the jail. He returned to Nauvoo after the Court was over; some of Brigham Young's guard was heard to say that it was best to save Daniel's soul while was in the faith. The next day nothing was seen of Daniels, and thus he was rewarded for his services to the saints, (as they are called:) It is reported by them that he was cut in pieces, put into a bag or sack and sunk in the Mississippi, 'where he can tell no lies, or recall his former statement.' 

Messrs. Babbitt, Fulmer and Haywood, agents, have been doing all they could to prevent the Brigharnite Mormons leaving Nauvoo. I said the twelve were the foundation of the trouble. Their public agents act in Nauvoo affairs, under the immediate counsel and direction of the Twelve, who, it is said, have gone West; but who, to the contrary, some one or two of them are secreted in Nauvoo, the most of the time and dictating and controlling its affairs. The nearest Camp not being over 100 miles, they can go and come under the security of night and by the assistance of their agents in Nauvoo, -- who stand ready to secrete them and obey their mandates. Such are the facts of the case. And it is the intention of these men, through their agents at Nauvoo, to keep up a Brighamite organization and thereby keep possession of the temple, in despite of all the Anti's can do. To accomplish this some one bearing the name of a gentile, professing to be no Mormon, is nested upon a Brighamite goose nest, in the shape of the Hancock Eagle Printing Press. 'Hurra, hurra, won't we have lots of fun, and how we will pull the wool over their eyes in this way -- raise the cry, why, he is a gentile; he is no mormon; put on the democracy a little. This will make the new citizens friends and friends in the democratic ranks through the State; -- in hopes of the Mormon vote again, they will help us retain about 3,000 of these miserable remnants, to keep up our Danite bands in Nauvoo. 

Mr. Editor, I must say a few words more on this subject before I close this letter. Mr. Babbitt is now figuring at the head of all these matters in Nauvoo. He was once elected to the legislature. You heard of him in Springfield not long since. He is a Mormon High Priest under the Brighamite reign. He it was who received a handsome fee -- said to be 1000 dollars -- to defend Turley, another Mormon preacher of the same Brighamite stamp, when it was known at the time that the said Turley was as notorious a counterfeiter as ever walked the earth. The only difficulty was that his leader, Mr. Brigham, was known as the colleague of Turley in the counterfeiting business, and he might well suppose that a full trial in Turley's case, would reveal secrets affecting the character of the "holy apostle Brigham." Both Young and Turley have been indicated for making counterfeit money. 

Once more: The cry raised by these men about the poor in Nauvoo, is all a sham. to my certain knowledge thousands of dollars have been put into the hands of agents, an no one dollar has been appropriated to help the poor. It has been put into the pockets of the agents. One circumstance I will relate. At the time some gentlemen from St. Louis were in Nauvoo, negociating a purchase of the Temple, Mr. Babbit sent a messenger post haste to the Twelve to get the lowest price. After some pretended lamentations and deliberations, a letter was returned, signed by the twelve, and published in the Hancock Eagle, setting forth, the great love they had for the saints, and especially those that had worked on the temple. So, any they, we have concluded at last to let the Temple be sold, to help the poor brethren and sisters to go to California. But notice the deceit of these men. At the same time the Twelve took silent precaution and sent John Taylor, one of their gang, under cover of night to Nauvoo, to receive the money for the Temple as soon as it was paid over, and carry it to the camp, and slip it into the pockets of the Twelve. None but the poor Twelve would have received a single dollar of this money, had the Temple been sold. Such is the love for these men have for the poor. 
      Respectfully,          WM. SMITH.

P. S. -- If Mr. Amos Hodge, the father of the young Hodges, will call and see me, I can tell him the names of persons that will put him on the track of the men who murdered his sons. 