Mr. Editor, — In the haste of my remarks last week, I briefly referred to the proceedings of the first three evenings of the discussion, but necessarily omitted several interesting features which I wish now to notice. The last paragraph of my communication which was inserted as the paper was going to press, stated, that the discussion closed on Friday night ; but for want of time and room in your columns, my sketches of the last two evenings were reserved till this week. Dr. West spent much of the second and third evenings in reading from a Mormon pamphlet, containing a history of the rise of their church, of Smith's finding the plates and translating the Book of Mormon, and the testimony of the eleven witnesses, who say they saw and handled the plates, three of whom vouch for the correct ness of the translation. All this the doc tor pronounced a humbug, and all pre tension to revelatio.is or miracles in this age, blasphemy! This was sufficient, he said, to fix upon Mormonism his charges of lying, fraud, and blasphemy. This he relied on as one of his strong holds, and often referred to it, though he brought no scripture to prove his assertion. On the third night elder Adams answered it as follows: He thanked the doctor for introducing the narrative and the testimony of the wit nesses, &c, as it saved him the trouble. The whole he said was correct and true, but why it was introduced at this stage of the discussion in proof of the charges, ho could not imagine. If the ground the doctor assumed be conceded, it of course fixed upon Mormonism the charges of lying and fraud, but that was the contested point which remained to be proved, and his assumptions were not arguments. Here the Rev. E. T. Taylor, chairman, and many of the audience made themselves ridiculous by calling aloud for his proof in its favour. Mr. Adams replied, it was already proved if they would admit the power of testimony. No court of justice could re quire more than eleven positive witnesses to convict a man or establish any fact. Their testimony must be impeached and proved false, before the Doctor's charge can be fixed upon them. The Dr. contended that they were interested witnesses and therefore not to be believed. Mr. A. contended that if worldly interests were in view instead of honour, they had received calumny and detraction, — instead of wealth and influence, stripes and imprisonment; but if eternal interests were before them, he said no consistant man could be a disinterested witness of the things of God, none could say the eight writers of the New Testament — on whose authority we believe that book — were not interested in the things to which they affirm. Elder Adams referred to four or five prophecies in the bible, as parallel testimony in favour of the Book of Mormon, and his reasoning on them was very plausible. Father Taylor called him to order once, because he thought he had made a wrong application of one of the prophecies: the merits of his argument not bring a point of order, Mr. Adams very significantly replied, he would discuss the subject with the chairman when he had done with his present antagonist. But the chairman became so interested that he forgot that Dr. West had spoken three times, and Mr. Adams twice, and was very anxious to adjourn; but after several remonstrances from, different parts of the house, he put on his thinking cap, and concluded that Mr. A. was entitled to another speech; but as it was late Mr. Adams said that he should detain them but a few moments, and give in the rest of his time, which he did, and the meeting adjourned. Previous to the adjournment, however, Father Tavlor resigned the chair, because the audience were disposed to be noisy, and some thought him partial, but he was forthwith re-elected, and on Thursday evening he again took the chair. Dr. West's chief effort the first part of the evening, was to impeach the character of Smith and the Mormon witnesses; for this purpose, he read from an old pamphlet what appeared to be a certificate from some twenty or thirty citizens of the state of New York, representing Harris and Smith's family as being money diggers, superstitious and visionary, and that they had no confidence in their pretended discoveries. He also read a long letter which he said was from a Mr. Tucker, the printer of the first edition of the Book of Mormon. The letter stated that neither he, nor the hands in the office, believed a word of the book, that they tried Smith by pre tending to lose one of the sheets, and got Smith to translate it over again, and that afterwards, they compared the two together, and they did not agree. The letter also gave an account of several failures by the Mormon elders, in their attempts to work miracles, &c, the principle of which was as follows: — One of their accomplices went before, and called upon a farmer, was sick, and pretended to die ; soon after, two Mormon elders came along, and proposed trying their skill in raising him. The farmer called in the neighbours to wit ness it, but he asked them if they could raise a man that was beheaded; they answered, yes; then said the farmer, seizing his axe, I will cut of his head, that the miracle may be the more apparent, and the proof more convincing. But the dead man declining the operation, sprang up on his feet without their aid. This was the amount of testimony by which the Mormon witnesses were impeached. In the reply, Mr. Adams said, the certificate from the citizens of New York was not half as bad as the priests and pharisees entertained of Christ and his apostles ; that Christ told them that they should be hated of all nations, and Paul says, " we are counted as the filth and off-scouring of all things." Harris, Smith, and others were not accused of murder, treason, robbery, theft, adultery, or other crime, but of being "visionary and money diggers." — The servants of God were always visionary ; Stephen was stoned for seeing a vision ; forty men bound themselves with an oath, not to eat or drink till they had killed Paul, because he said he had seen a vision and heard a voice. If Mr. Smith dug for money, he considered it was a more honourable way of getting it than taking it from the widow and the orphan; but a few lazy hireling priests of this age, would dig either for money or potatoes. This, of course, made Father Taylor take his toes again. Tucker's letter he pronounced wholly a farce; it bore marks of forgery or falsehood in every sentence: — first, E. B. Grandin was the printer of the first edition of this book, as the title page showed for itself, and if Tucker, or any one else had pretended to lose and yet retained a portion of it, let it be produced ; why is it kept secret this twelve years and no one know any thing about it till now ? As to the story of the dead man, it proved too much. He was either dead, or the farmer and his neighbours were all fools. Who Was the farmer? Who where the neighbours ? What was the dead man's name, and that of the preachers? Where and when was it done? On all these subjects we are left to our own conjectures. Adams further said, if such men as Tucker or the farmer existed, tell us where and who they are ; I will furnish the money to bring them here, and we will have this matter settled, and I will pay Dr. West's expenses till it can be done. 
As Adams closed, the burst of applause from the audience plainly admonished the doctor to pull on another string ; accordingly, in his best speech, he left his " important documents " and appealed to elder Adams for a sign, and a miracle he would have ; he brought all his powerful oratory to bear in his demand lor a miracle, and many of the good christians of this age, especially the Millerites and Father Taylor, joined in the general cry of " a miracle, give us a miracle ; a miracle we must and will have ;" and if you dont give us a sign, said the doctor, we shall consider you guilty of all the charges brought against you and your people. The doctor then made a most hypo critical appeal to elder Adams, telling him, if he would work a miracle to convince him, he would forthwith kneel and receive a blessing at his hands ; he then with all his eloquence endeavoured to work upon the passions of the audience, and get them to join in one universal cry for " the sign! the sign!! " and so drown the voice of elder Adams.
As soon as Dr. West took his seat, up jumped Father Taylor, and delivered a short speech in favour of the doctor, and said "the doctor had a right to demand a sign! and he demanded a sign!! and the people must demand a signl!!" of Mr. Adams ; in fact, to judge from appearances, the chairman seemed as much interested in the issue of the discussion as the doctor himself, as every candid man or woman present must admit. Mr. Adams then rose in the midst of the clamour, and appeared as calm as a summer evening. Joy seemed to beam forth from his countenance ; the terrible appeal of doctor West, and the Rev. Mr. Taylor, had not caused him to lose any of his usual vivacity. He calmly asked the audience if they would hear his answer to the doctor, and he solemnly told the people, if it appeared in conclusion, that the doctor had demanded the sign on the New Testament ground, he pledged himself to give them the sign before the debate closed. This satisfied all reasonable people, that were present, but some of the Millerites together with Father Taylor and the doctor, still joined in the cry of "give us the sign first." Mr. Adams then quoted from Solomon, -where he says, " a wise man will hear a matter and then judge, but a fool will judge before he hears!" And now, said elder Adams, we will soon know how many fools we have present on this occasion. This last sarcastic appeal brought the doctor and Father Taylor to order, but some of the Millerites, and religious bigots that were entirely lost to reason and common sense, still called loudly for the "sign!" Adams then told them, that as they expected Christ to come in 1843, he hoped they would manifest a little patience, and if their doctrine (that is the doctrine of the Millerites) be true, the Latter-day Saints could not do much more harm ; and if Millerism was true, they, the Saints, would be all burnt up in 1843. Adams's keen sarcasm soon brought them to their reason, and he was then permitted to go on in peace, and the way he brought scripture to bear on the subject of signs, was a caution. He clearly proved that signs were not given to convince unbelievers, but that Jesus said these signs shall follow them that believe, not go before to convince unbelievers, in proof of which he quoted Mark, 16th chapter, 16, 17, I8th verses. He then said, if the New Testament was true, a wicked and an adulterous gene ration seek after a sign, and that the spirit of sign-seeking was an adulterous spirit, that had its origin in hell, and was brought forth in the days of Christ by the Devil, and long-robed reverend priests ; for, said Adams, the Devil wanted " Jesus " to cast himself down from the pinacle of the temple, and turn stones into bread, and the priests and scribes wanted a sign, and told Jesus if he was the Christ, to save himself and come down from the cross, and they would believe on him. — Herod also wanted a sign, but, said Adams, my Lord and master refused to give his Sa tanic majesty, the scribes and pharisees, together with the long robed priests, and infidel Herod, a sign; so, said he, do I refuse on bible ground, to give a sign to doctor West, who has laid his unholy infidel hands on the book of God, and made its glorious promises of no effect, through his vain traditions. 
Just at this moment up jumped old Father Taylor, and said, Mr. Adams is too hard on the doctor, but it was no go ; Adams was not to be put down, for he poured in such a torrent of testimony from the bible, that it was apparent to all present that he had taken bible ground. He took the bible in his hand, and turned deliberately round to the doctor, and said, now, sir, if you will show me one single passage in the New- Testament where any apostle of Christ ever worked a miracle, to convince an infidel or a set of ungodly unbelievers, I will do the same sign or miracle forth with. On this Father Taylor could stand it no longer ; he sprung to his feet, and said he, " I resign — I will be chairman no longer." " Good," said hundreds in all parts of the house, " for you are not fit for a chairman — we do not want you — you are a bigoted and partial man, and we won't have you in the chair any longer." The doctor failing to find where the apostle ever worked a miracle to convince unbelievers, they could not demand the sign of elder Adams on bible ground. The meeting then adjourned until Friday evening. On Friday evening, the first item was to elect a new chairman. After various movements, it was agreed that Mr. George P. Oaks, Dr. West's secretary, Latter-day Saints ; and when he came to read the misquotations and falsehoods contained in said pamphlet, it made 'Joshua turn rather pale — and the celebrated doctor looked something as the man spoken of in the parable, not having on the wedding garment. Mr. Adams then stated, that a liar was not to be believed when he spoke the truth, and of course, a book full of contradictions, misquotations, and falsehoods, could not be received as evidence. He then said that the whole of the doctor's argument rested on the miracle. The doctor then gave up every thing else, and rested on the miracle, and wished an adjournment until Saturday evening, to allow him time to find his miracle — but this was no go with the audience, for Mr. Adams told them to have it settled then, " and not gull the people out of another nine- pence," and the people would have it settled on the spot. It was then moved and carried, that each speaker be allow ed fifteen minutes. The doctor then arose, and by the assistance of the Rev. Joshua V. Himes, brought forth the case of Ananias and Sapphira, as a case exactly to the point. I his brought a universal burst of laughter, from almost the whole audience. This was the top stone of the doctor's folly; after this, he lost all command of himself, and sat down in confusion, if not disgrace. He could not even murder through his fifteen minutes. Elder Adams then arose and closed the discussion, by pouring another torrent of scripture testimony in upon the Rev. Doctor, and fully cleared the doctrines and principles of the Latter-day- Saints of implied madness, blasphemy, lying, fraud, treason, and murder. He came off in flying colours " Not Guilty," and I have no hesitation in saying that the discussion has gained the Latter-day Saints many hundred friends in Boston and vicinity, as the large and very respectable congregations that attend to hear Mr. Adams's lecture at the Boylston Hall fully prove. His audience since the discussion, will number from 1,000 to 1,200. On the other hand, Dr. West is lecturing against him "to a beggarly account of empty benches," sometimes not having fifty people present.
I would just say by way of conclusion, that Mr. Oakes, the chairman of the last evening, deserves great credit for the impartial manner he acted in regard to the two speakers.
At the close, Mr. Adams (having freed himself of the doctrine he advocates from the charges alleged by Dr. West) again challenged the doctor to meet him on the real point at issue, viz: the doctrine of the Latter-day Saints, and discuss it before the public, the bible to be the standard of evidence. Mr. Oakes the chairman, then told the people that Dr. West refused to meet Mr. Adams. The meeting was dismissed, so the matter ended; and Dr. West " has retreated from the field of battle without having left a stone to tell where slumbers the ashes of the fallen hero." P. S. Will none of our learned ministers of Boston meet elder Adams, and discuss the doctrine of the Latter-day Saints — the bible being the standard of evidence? I hope they will come out with their strong reasons, for the " Mormons " are baptizing almost daily, and thousands are beginning to search into these things, and if our priests do not come out with their " strong reasons," I fear all the world will run after them. Q.

