A friend has handed us the following communication for insertion in the Bostonian. We cheerfully comply with his request, not doubting that our readers will also be gratified with the perusal of it. Joe. Smith and his followers are creating as great a revolution in the morals of our country, as our fathers in 76 did in its political destinies. Our columns are open to both sides of the question, provided communications are short and to the point. Mr Editor, — Having attended the lectures lately delivered at the Boylston Hall by Mr Adams, the Mormon lecturer of the city of New York, who has just returned from England where he has been for the last fifteen months declaring what he calls " the glories of the new and everlasting covenant," I thought a short review of said lectures would prove interesting to the readers of your valuable paper ; and I have no hesitation in saying that Elder Nickerson has made a decided hit in getting Mr Adams to assist him at this time, as the large, intelligent, and attentive congregations that have attended to hear his lectures fully prove. His first lecture was delivered on Wednesday evening, June 1st, in which he gave his reasons for renouncing Methodism, and embracing the doctrines and principles of the Latter-day Saints. His reasoning was unanswerable, and the way he walked into the affections of their supposed God, without body, parts, or passions, was a caution to Yankee sinners. At the close he gave an opportunity for the Methodists to defend their system, and although some of their preachers were present, they said not a word — for they well knew the bible condemned their creed. On Thursday evening he fully showed the ignorance and folly of Millerism, clearly proving by the scriptures that the Jews must be gathered home from their long dispersion, and rebuild their city on its own heaps of ruins, even Jerusalem itself, before Christ should come. On Friday and Saturday evenings he introduced a talented young elder from Nauvoo, named Snow, who clearly set forth that the doctrine of Christ was, and is, the same in all ages, and that the Church of Christ, when he has an organized church on the earth, is composed of the same offices, the same ordinances, and has in it the same gifts and blessings. On Sunday, Mr Adams lectured on the second coming of Christ, and gave much light on that subject, showing that it would take place before this present generation shall pass away. He proved also, if the bible is true, that the second advent must take place before 1880. In the course of the lecture he threw much light on the subject of the " Ancient of Days," showing him not to be the Lord Jesus Christ, nor God the Father, but that he is old father Adam, who shall sit as a great patriarch at the head of the whole family, when the second Adam, the Lord from heaven, the Son of Man shall come with the clouds, and come to the Ancient of Days, and the Saints should take the kingdom, and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole heaven, according to Daniel, c vii. He also declared, as it was in the days of Noah, so now God had called a prophet, viz Joseph Smith, to warn this generation to prepare for the coming of the Son of Man, and laboured to show the injustice of destroying any generation without first warning them. In the afternoon he spoke on the subject of the resurrection, and every one that heard him, that said any thing upon the subject, acknowledged that it surpassed every thing they ever heard on the final destiny of man. He first showed that the living soul is in its full meaning composed of two eternal principles — matter and spirit; that through disobedience man became a dying soul. He then clearly set forth that Christ became the first fruits of them that slept at his resurrection, or the first saved soul, or the type or pattern of every soul that will be saved ; and that the soul consisted of the spirit and body being re-united at the resurrection, no more to be separated ; and that the soul thus raised would be composed of flesh, bones, and spirit, but not blood. He then fully established the reign of Christ on earth one thousand years, with those that have part in the first resurrection, and gave much light on the full sway after the unbinding of Satan at the close of the reign of peace; and then spoke of the last struggle between the powers of darkness and of light, when death itself shall be conquered and immortality alone endure. When he came to dwell on the second resurrection, the new heavens and the new earth, the whole congregation seemed for a moment to forget that they were listening to a poor despised Latter-day Saint or Mormon, and tears of joy fell from their eyes in abundance, that plainly indicated they were wrapped up in the subject before them, lie then sweetly spoke of the bringing back of the tree of life, that caused many hearts to rejoice.In the evening he preached on the re organization of the Church of Christ and the marriage supper of the Lamb, showing that the Church of Christ had been disorganized and driven in the wilder ness, and the priesthood or authority by which men act in the name of Jesus Christ had been caught up unto the throne of God, until the dispensation of the fulness of times should be ushered in by the ministry of angels in fulfilment of many prophecies of the scriptures, lie then set forth the scarlet coloured beast and her daughters, who compose the present sectarian world, lie also showed that every sect on earth at the present time received their priesthood or authority through the Church of Rome or nowhere, for they all deny a later revelation than eighteen hundred years ago. He then appealed to the people, declaring that the Latter-day Saints were the only people on earth that believed in revelations in this age, and that they were the only society on earth that were contending for the faith once delivered to the saints — and that the sects of the present time plainly told the people that the gifts of God could not be enjoyed, " for they were all done away in this enlightened age." He then declared that God had, in fulfilment of his word, re organized the church with all the offices, ordinances, gifts, and blessings, according to the New Testament pattern ; that the bride, the Lamb's wife, that is the church, should make herself ready to enter in at the marriage supper of the Lamb. At the close a gentleman arose and told Mr Adams that if he would work a miracle he would believe and be baptized, for all the servants that God ever sent worked miracles to convince the people. Mr Adams then arose and said he thought God had sent many prophets that did not work miracles, and named Noah and about a dozen others; he then showed that Christ said a wicked and an adulterous generation seek after a sign — that the devil was the first sign-seeker in the days of Christ. He then held up the bible and said, if the gentleman would show him one place in the New Testament that a servant of God ever gave a sign to make a man believe, he would do the same sign forthwith — this the gentleman failed to do, and so the matter ended. In conclusion, I must say, that notwithstanding I am no Mormon, yet as far as I have heard them, they preach the truth. A Lover of Truth  [note: in MS, the following is placed before the July 2 section]From the Weekly Bostonian, July 9 Mr Editor, — You will doubtless recollect that some two or three weeks ago I gave you a short sketch of the lectures delivered by Elder G J Adams, at the Boylston Hall, and also promised if he produced anything worthy of notice in his forthcoming lectures, that you should hear from me again. The reason of my so long delaying to notice this subject, is not that there was nothing worthy of notice in the lectures; but about the time I should have written, Mr Adams and his society were charged with blasphemy, lying, fraud, treason, and murder: and I thought if they were guilty "of these heavy charges, they were unworthy of anything but the halter and hang man ; however, since that time Mr Adams has nobly met the man that made the heavy charges above named, and entirely freed himself and the society to which he belongs, of every vestige of said charges; and the opposers of the Mormons, are left in shame, confusion, and disgrace, and " the wonders of the new and everlasting covenant, as Adams calls it, is the great exciting subject in Boston at the present time; and truly it can be said, they that turn the world upside down have come hither also, and the general cry among sectarians is, "how shall we put them down; if we let them alone our societies will be shaken to their narrow foundations, and already they begin to tremble. Some of our best and most devoted members are leaving us and joining them." Before I enter upon a short description of the lectures, I wish to notice one important item in the discussion lately held in the Marlboro' Chapel; it is relative to the bible being the rule or standard of evidence in their decisions on points of doctrine and principle. On the last evening but one of the discussion, to save time and come directly to the point it was moved by Mr Seaver, (who is a Free Enquirer) that the disputants, Dr West, and elder Adams take the bible as the standard of evidence. To this proposition Adams, the Mormons, and the Free Enquirers agreed, but Dr West and his sectarian friends would not agree to it, and being most in number they voted down the proposition; yes, those very men that are continually crying "the bible ! the bible ! give us the bible !" actually voted against the bible ; yes, voted it down for no other reason that the writer knows, only that it condemns them and their creeds. From the moment that vote was taken, I have been a determined opposer of sectarianism and priest craft in all its monstrous and soul-killing forms, but a friend to the bible, and bible religion. The three lectures that I alluded to in my previous communication were on the subject of the Book of Mormon, the building of Zion, and the pouring out of the vials of the wrath of God, in the last days. On the subject of the Book of Mormon his arguments were clear and conclusive, plainly proving by many prophecies in the bible that such a record must come forth before God could gather the Jews from their long dispersion. He particularly dwelt on the 29th chap, of Isaiah and the latter part of" the 37th chap, of Ezekiel, commencing with the 15th verse. He then clearly proved the Book of Mormon to be the stick, record, or history of the descendants of Joseph that dwelt in this land (America), separate from their brethren, in fulfilment of the predictions of Jacob and Moses, see Gen 48th chapter, also part of chapter 49, from verse 22 to 26 ; also Deut chap 33rd, verses 13, 14, 15, 16, 17. He argued from the above and many other passages of scripture, that the descendants of Joseph were to be come, "a multitude of nations," and "inhabit the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills," — " the earth and the fulness thereof." He introduced an account of many American antiquities together with the discoveries lately made by Mr. Stevens, that all go to prove that the American Indians were once an enlightened people and understood the arts and sciences, as the ruined cities and monuments lately discovered fully prove. He then declared that this record had not come forth in the place of the bible, but in fulfilment of the bible ; that its coming forth clearly demonstrated that Jesus has been as good as his word, viz : he told his disciples he had other sheep that were not of that fold (in Jerusalem) and they also should hear his voice, for he was sent to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, — and some of the lost sheep of the house of Israel, viz : — of the tribe of Joseph, being in America, it was necessary Jesus should visit them, as also the ten tribes in the " north country." He declared that Jesus did visit both the above named branches of the house of Israel during the forty days before his final ascension from the Mount of Olives,* and that the Book of Mormon was not only a history of the dealings of God with the descendants of Joseph on this continent, previous to the crucifixion of our Lord, but also an account of the gospel as established among them by the personal appearance of Christ on this continent ; and that the account of the gospel in the Book of Mormon agreed with the account in the bible, thereby proving that the gospel of Christ is the same in every nation, composed of the same eternal truths, the same gifts, the same offices, the same ordinances, and every thing the same as when Christ has an organised church on the earth ; and that the Book of Mormon had come forth as an " ensign to the nations," containing an account of the gospel in much plain ness, being translated by the gift and power of God by the use of the Urim and Thummim, that had come forth with the plates that contain the record. He also stated that the plates, containing the record, had been hid up unto the Lord by Moroni the son of Mormon, the last prophet among the descendants of Joseph on this continent; that about the time this event took place, they hadfallen into sin, and great wickedness ; many of their cities had been overthrown by earthquakes, and they left to fall in ignorance and unbelief, until the " dispensation of the fulness of times," and that now their record had come forth, throwing a flood of light on the early history of this continent, and would yet be hailed by every lover of truth as one of the most glorious events of the nineteenth century. A Lover of Truth*This is a mistake, the Book of Mormon gives us to understand that it was not during the forty days, but afterwards, that Christ visited the Nephites. See, Book of Mormon, page 512, Europe an Edition.— Bi>.45 words/sentence