4. Traits of the Mosaic History, Found Among the Aztaeca Nations.

The tradition commences with an account of the deluge, as they had preserved
it in books made from the buffalo and deer skin, in which account there is
more certainty than if it had been preserved by mere oral tradition, handed
down from father to son.

They begin by painting, or as we would say by telling us that Noah, whom they
call Tezpi, saved himself with his wife, whom they call Xochiquetzal, on a
raft or canoe. Is not this the ark? The raft or canoe rested on or at the foot
of a mountain, which they call Colhuacan. Is not this Ararat? The men born
after this deluge were born dumb. Is not this the confusion of language at
Babel? A dove from the top of a tree destributes [distributes] languages to
them in the form of an olive leaf. Is not this the dove of Noah, which
returned with that leaf in her mouth, as related in Genisis [Genesis]? They
say that on this raft, besides Tezpi and his wife, were several children, and
animals, with grain, the preservation of which was of importance to mankind.
Is not this in almost exact accordance with what was saved in the ark with
Noah, as stated in Genisis [Genesis]?

When the Great Spirit, Tezcatlipoca, ordered the waters to withdraw, Tezpi
sent out from his raft a vulture, which never returned, on account of the
great quantities of dead carcases [carcasses] which it found to feed upon.. Is
not this the raven of Noah, which did not return when it was sent out the
second time, for the very reason here assigned by the Mexicans? Tezpi sent
other birds one of which was the humming bird; this bird alone returned,
holding in its beak a branch covered with leaves. Is not this the dove?-Tezpi,
seeing that fresh verdure now clothed the earth, quitted his raft near the
mountain of Colhuacan. Is not this an allusion to Ararat of Asia? They say the
tongues which the dove gave to mankind, were infinitely varied; which when
received, they immediately dispersed.-But among them were 15 heads or chiefs
of families, which were permitted to speak the same language, and these were
the Taltecs, the Aculhucans and Azteca nations who embodied themselves
together, which was very natural, and traveled they knew not where, but at
length arrived in the country of Aztalan, of the lake country of America. The
plates or engraving presented here is a surprising representation of the
deluge of Noah; and of the confusion of the ancient language at the building
of the tower of Babel, as related in the Book of Genisis [Genesis]. (see chap.
vii and xi.

We have derived the subject of this plate from Baron Humbolt's volume of
Researches in Mexico, who found it painted on a manuscript book, made of the
leaves of some kind of tree, suitable for the purpose, after the manner of
ancient nations of the sultry parts of Asia around the Mediterranean.

The plate, however here presented shows no more than a picture of the flood,
with Noah afloat on a raft, or as the traditions of some of the nations say on
a tree, a canoe, and some say in a vessel of huge dimensions. Italso [It also]
shows by the group of men approaching the bird, a somewhat obscure history of
the confusion of the ancient language at the building of Babel, by
representing them as being born dumb, who receive the gift of speech from a
dove, which flutters in the branches of the tree, while she presents the
languages to the mute throng, by bestowing upon each individual a leaf of the
tree, which is shown in the form of small commas suspended from its beak.

Among the different nations, according to Humboldt, who inhabited Mexico, were
found paintings which represented the deluge, orflood [or flood] of Tezpi.

The painting of which the plate is the representation, shows Tezpi, of Noah,
in the midst of the waters laying on his back. The mountain, the summit of
which is crowned by a tree and rises above the wasters is the peak of
Colhucan, the Ararat of the Mexicans. At the foot of the mountain on each side
appear the heads of Noah and his wife. The woman is known by the two points
extending up from her forehead, which is the universal designation of the
female sex among the Mexicans.; The horn at the left hand of the tree with a
human hand pointing to it, is the character representing a mountain and the
head of a bird placed above the head of Tezpi or Noah, shows the vulture which
the Mexicans say Tezpi sent out of his acalli or boat to see if the waters had
subsided.

In the figure of the bid with the leaves of a tree in his beak, is shown the
circumstance of the dove's return to the ark, when it had been sent out the
second time bringing a branch of the olive in its mouth; but in their
tradition it had become misplaced, and is made the author of the languages.
That birds have a language was believed by the nations of the old world. Some
of those nations retain a surprising traditional account of the deluge; who
say that Noah embarked in a spacious acalli or boat, with his wife, his
children, several animals, and grain, the preservation of which was of g eat
importance to mankind. When the Great Spirit, Tezcatlipoca, ordered the waters
to withdraw, Tezpi or Noah sent out from his boat a vulture. But the bird's
natural food was that of dead carcases [carcasses], it did not return on
account of the great number of dead carcasses with which the earth now dried
in some places abounded.

Tezpi sent out other birds one of which was humming bird; this bird alone
returned again to the boat, holding in his beak a branch covered with leaves.
Tezpi now knowing that the earth was dry, being clothed with fresh verdure,
quitted his bark near the mountain Colhucan or Ararat. A tradition of the same
fact, the deluge, is also found among the Indians of the Northwest. I
received, says a late traveller [traveler], the following account from a Chief
of one of the tribes in his own words, in the English. "..."

There are many things contained in the above that go to support the testimony
of the Book of Mormon, as well as that of the Mosaic history. The Mexican
records agree so well with the word of the book of Ether (found by the people
of Limhi, which is contained in the Book of Mormon) in relation to the
confounding of languages, that we insert the following:

BOOK OF ETHER-CHAP. I.

* * * Which Jared came forth with his brother and their families, with some
others and their families, from the great tower at the time the Lord
confounded the language of the people, and swear in his wrath that they should
be scattered upon all the face of this earth; and according to the word of the
Lord the people were scattered. And the brother of Jared being a large and
mighty man, and being a man highly favored of the Lord; for Jared his brother
said unto him, cry unto the Lord, that he will not confound us that we may not
understand our words. And it came to pass that the brother of Jared did cry
unto the Lord, and the Lord had compassion upon Jared; therefore he did not
confound the language of Jared; and Jared and his brother were not confounded.
Then Jared said unto his brother, cry again unto the Lord, and it maybe that
he will turn away his anger from them who are our friends, that he confound
not their language. And it came pass that the brother of Jared did cry unto
the Lord and the Lord had compassion upon their friends and their families
also, that they were not confounded. And it came to pass that Jared spoke
again unto his brother, saying, go and inquire of the Lord whether he will
drive us out of the land, and if he will drive us out of the land, cry unto
him whither we shall go.-And who knoweth but the Lord will carry us forth into
a land which is choice above all the earth. And if it so be, let us be
faithful unto the Lord, that we may receive it for our inheritance.

And it came to pass that the brother of Jared did cry unto the Lord according
to that which had been spoken by the mouth of Jared. And it came to pass that
the Lord did hear the brother of Jared, and had compassion upon him and said
unto him, go to and gather together thy flocks, both make and female of every
kind; and also of the seed of the earth of every kind, and thy families; and
also Jared thy brother and his family; and also thy friends and their
families, and the friends of Jared and their families. And when thou hast done
this, thou shalt go at the head of them down into the valley that is
northward. And there will ;I meet thee, and I will go before thee into a land
which is choice above all the land of the earth. And there will I meet thee,
and I will go before thee into a land which is choice above all the earth. And
there will I bless thee and thy seed, and raise up unto me of thy seed, and of
the seed of thy brother, and they who shall go with thee, a great nation.-And
there shall be none greater than the nation which I will raise up unto me of
thy seed; upon all the face of the earth. And thus I will do unto thee because
this long time ye have cried unto me.

Here, then, we have two records found upon this continent, that go to support
the words of eternal truth-the Bible; and whilst these records, both of them,
sanction the testimony of the scriptures in regard to the flood, the tower of
Babel, ands the confusion of languages; the tradition and hyeroglyphics
[hieroglyphics] of the Zaltees, the Colhuacans, and the Azteca nations, in
regard to the confusion of languages and their travels to this land, is so
like that contained in the Book of Mormon, that the striking analogy must be
seen by every superficial observer.

In regard to the confusion of languages it is said of the above nations, that
there were "..." The Book of Mormon, concerning the same event, says: "..."-and it further states that Jared's brother's language was not
confounded; and they then prayed for their families and friends also, and the
Lord heard them in their behalf; and their language was not confounded. These
accounts, then, precisely agree, one of which was found in Ontario county, N.
Y., and the other in Mexico.

Again, those nations, of families, embodied themselves together and traveled
they know not where, but at length arrived in the country of Aztalan, of the
lake country of America. The Book of Mormon says, that the brother of Jared
cried unto the Lord, that he would give them another land; the Lord heard him,
and told him to go to a certain place, "..." This
it further speaks is the land of America. The coincidence is so striking that
further comment is unnecessary.-ED.

