1. EVIDENCES IN PROOF OF THE BOOK OF MORMON.

We have laying before us, a neat little work of 256 pages, 32 mo. entitled
"Evidences in proof of the Book of Mormon" &c. By Charles Thompson, minister
of the gospel; published at Batavia, N. Y. We are much pleased with the spirit
manifested by the writer, and feel to commend him in his laudable undertaking.

We make the following extracts, commencing on the 97th page.

I will next introduce the description of some of these ancient fortifications
and military works of defence [defense], as recorded in the American
Antiquities, by Josiah Priest, and also introduce a history of the building of
these fortifications and works of defence [defense], as recorded in the Book
of Mormon; and I will here remark, that the Book of Mormon was published in A.
D. 1830, and the American Antiquities, by Josiah Priest, was not published
until A. D. 1833, three years after. Antiquities, page 158 and 159, "Near
Newark in the county of Licking, Ohio, is situated one of the immense works or
fortifications of the ancient nations of America. It embraces in the whole, a
circumferance [circumference] of about six hundred rods, or nearly two miles;
a wall of earth about four hundred rods, is raised on the sides of this fort
next to the small creek which comes down along its sides from the west and
east. It would seem that the people who made this settlement, undertook to
encompass, with a wall, as much land as would support its inhabitants, and
also sufficient to build their dwellings on, with several fortifications
arranged in a proper manner for its defence [defense]. There are within its
ranges four of these forts, of different dimensions; one contains forty acres,
with a wall of about ten feet high; another containing twenty-two acres, also
walled, but in this fort is an elevated observatory, of sufficient height to
overlook the whole country; a third fort, containing about twenty-six acres,
having a wall around it thrown out of a deep ditch on the inside of the wall.
This wall is now from twenty-five to thirty feet in height. A fourth
fortification encloses twenty acres with a wall of about ten feet high."

Book of Mormon, page 378, 2nd Ed., "Now it came to pass that while Amalickiah
had thus been obtaining power by fraud and deceit, Moroni on the other hand,
had been preparing the minds of the people to be faithful unto the Lord their
God, yea, he had been strengthening the armies of the Nephites, and erecting
small forts or places of resort, throwing up banks of earth round about to
enclose his armies, and also building walls of stone to encircle them round
about their cities and the borders of their lands."

Antiquities, page 160, "A second fort siuated [situated] southwesterly from
the great works on the Licking, encloses about forty acres; its wall is
entirely of stone Antiquities, page 163, "At Circleville, Ohio, there is a
circular fort surrounded by two walls with a deep ditch between them; also, a
square foot about eighteen rods in circumference enclosed by a wall with a
ditch."

Book of Mormon, page 382, "Now behold, the Lamanites could not get into their
forts of security by any other way save by the entrance, because of the
highness of the bank which had been thrown up and the depth of the ditch which
had been dug round about, save it was by the entrance."

Antiquities, page 165, "Near the round fort at Circleville is another fort
ninety feet high, and was doubtless erected to overlook the whole works of
that enormous military establishment. That it was a military establishment is
the decided opinion of the President of the Western Antiquarian Society, Mr.
Atwater. He says the round fort was picketed in, if we are to judge from the
appearance of the ground on and about the walls. Half way up the outside of
the inner wall, is a place distinctly to be seen, where a row of pickets once
stood, and where it was placed when this work of defence [defense] was
originally erected. These works have been examined by the first military men
now living in the United States, and they have uniformly declared their
opinion to be, that they were military works of defence [defense]."

Book of Mormon, page 383, 2nd Ed., "And now it came to pass that Moroni did
not stop making preparation for war, or to defend his people against the
Lamanites, for he caused that his armies should commence in the commencement
of the twentieth year of the reign of the Judges, that they should commence in
digging up heaps of earth round about all the cities throughout all the land
which was possessed by the Nephites; and upon the top of the ridges of earth,
he caused that there should be timbers, yea, works of timbers built up to the
height of a man, round about the cities. And he caused that upon those works
of timbers there should be a frame of pickets built upon the timbers, round
about, and they were strong and high; and he caused towers to be erected that
overlooked those works of pickets. And he caused places of security to be
built upon those towers, that the stones and arrows of the Lamanites could not
hurt them; and they were prepared, that they could cast stones from the top
thereof, according to their pleasure and their strength, and slay him who
should attempt to approach near the walls of the city. Thus Moroni did prepare
strong holds against the coming of their enemies, round about every city in
all the land.

The foregoing is but a few of the corresponding accounts of fortifications and
works of defence [defense] there are to be found in the Book of Mormon and
American Antiquities, but these are sufficient to show to the public that the
people whose history is contained in the Book of Mormon, are the authors of
these works.-But again; as we trace the history of this people down through
succeeding generations, we find that one Gadianton, a robber, rose up and
organized a band to rob and plunder. These robbers prepared strong holds and
secret places in the mountains, to which they could flee, and be secure when
the armies of the Nephites pursued them. Some of these strong holds and secret
places were discovered in 1832--two years after the Book of Mormon was
published-by a Mr. Furguson, and communicated to the editor of the Christian
Advocate and Journal. This account is recorded on page 169 of the American
Antiquities. Mr. Furguson describes this discovery as follows:

"On a mountain called the Lookout Mountain, belonging to the vast Allegany
[Allegheny] chain, running between the Tennessee and Coos rivers, rising about
one thousand feet above the level of the surrounding valley. The top of the
mountain is mostly level, but presents to the eve [eye?] an almost barren
waste. On this range, notwithstanding its hieght [height], a river has its
source and after traversing it for about seventy miles, plunges over a
precipice. The rock from which the water falls, is circular, and juts over
considerably. Immediately below the fall, on each side of the river, are
bluffs, which rise about two hundred feet. Around one of these bluffs the
river makes a bend which gives it the form of a peninsula. On the top of this
are the remains of what is esteemed fortifications, which consist of a stone
wall built on the very brow of this tremendous ledge. The whole length of the
wall, following the very course of the brink of this precipice, is thirty
seven rods and eight feet, including about two acres of ground. The only
descent from this place is between two rocks, for about thirty feet, when a
bench of the ledge presents itself from two to five feet in width and ninety
feet long. This bench is the only road or path up from the water's edge to the
summit. But just at the foot of the two rocks where they reach this path and
within thirty feet of the top of the rock, are five rooms, which have been
formed by dint of labor. The entrance to these rooms is very small, but when
within, they are found to communicate with each other by doors or appertures
[apertures]."

Mr. Furguson thinks them to have been constructed during some dreadful war,
and those who constructed them, to have acted on the defensive; and believes
that twenty men could have withstood the whole army of Xerxes, as it was
impossible for more than one to pass at a time, and might by the slightest
push, be hurled at least an hundred and fifty feet down the rocks.

Book of Mormon, page 479, 2nd Ed., "And it came to pass that the ninety and
third year (of the reign of the Judges over the people of Nephi) did also pass
away in peace, save it was for the Gadianton robbers, who dwelt upon the
Mountains, who did infest the land; for so strong were their holds and their
secret places, that the people could not overpower them; therefore they did
commit many murders, and did so much slaughter among the people." Again; Book
of Mormon, page 481, "And it came to pass in the commencement of the
fourteenth year, (form [from] the time the sign was given of the birth of
Christ,) the war between the robbers and the people of Nephi did continue, and
did become exceeding sore; nevertheless the people of Nephi did gain some
advantage of the robbers, insomuch [inasmuch] that they did drive them back
out of their land into the mountains and into their secret places." Again;
Book of Mormon, page 485, 2nd Ed., "But it came to pass that in the latter end
of the eighteenth year, those armies of robbers had prepared for battle and
began to come down and to sally forth from the hills, and out of the mountains
and the wilderness, and their strong holds and their secret places, and began
to take possession of the lands." And on the 487 and 488 pages, we are
informed how these robbers were finally destroyed; it was by a stratagem. A
part of the Nephite armies getting between the robbers and their secret places
and strong holds, by which they were cut off in their retreat.

This again, is evidence that the Book of Mormon is true, and that this band of
robbers were the constructors of this strong hold and these secret rooms which
Mr. Furguson has described; for mark! this discovery was not made untill
[until] two years after the Book of Mormon was published, consequently the
writer of the Book of Mormon could not have written this tale concerning the
robbers, to account for the construction of those caverns, for it was not
known that there was such a place in existence, until after the book was
written and published. And thus we have abundance of proof from recent
discoveries, American Antiquities and prophecy, that the history contained in
the Book of Mormon is true.

Again; this history informs us that about four hundred years after Christ,
this nation of Nephites were brought down and destroyed by the Lamanites; and
this because they became proud and lifted up, practising [practicing] all
manner of wickedness and abominations, and they refused to repent and turn
again unto God; therefore because they were more wicked than the Lamanites,
God stirred up the Lamanites to camp against them round about, and to raise
forts against them with a mount, and thus they were brought down. But just
before their final overthrow, a man by the names of Mormon took their record
containing their history and sacred writings, from the time they left
Jerusalem, (the city where David dwelt,) unto his days, and made an
abridgement [abridgment] therefrom, and engraved it upon plates which he made
out of ore. These plates, after Mormon's death, fell into the hands of Moroni,
his son, who survived the entire destruction of the Nephites, finished the
record, and deposited it in a stone box in the earth, that it might not be
destroyed; to come forth in due time for a sign to Israel, that the time of
their redemption had come. And also, in connection with the Bible, to be set
up as an ensign for the nations; and thus, this nation of Nephites possessing
the light of God's revelation, which constituted them Ariel, or Lion of God,
and being "of the city where David dwelt," (that is, having come out from
Jerusalem,) was brought down and their words having been written and hid up in
the earth and come forth again out of the earth, they "speak out of the ground
and their voice whispers out of the dust."

This account also agrees with the Indian traditions which I have quoted in a
former part of this work. It says, that their forefathers were once in
possession of a sacred Book, which was handed down from generation to
generation, and at last hid in the earth; but these oracles are to be restored
to them again and then they shall triumph over their enemies and regain their
ancient country.

But again, when this Book was taken from the place of its deposite [deposit],
the words thereof were delivered to the learned Dr. Mitchel of New York, with
a request that he should read them, but he could not; thus fulfilling the 11th
verse of the 29th chapter of Isaiah, which says, the words of a book which is
sealed men deliver to one that is learned, saying, read this I pray thee; and
he saith I cannot for it is sealed. And the book is delivered to him that is
not learned, saying read this I pray thee; and he saith I am not learned.
Wherefore the Lord said, forasmuch as this people, (the people of this
generation,) draw near me with their mouths, and with their lips do honor me;
but have removed their hearts far from me, and their fear towards me is taught
by the psecepts [precepts] of men; therefore behold, I will proceed to do a
marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder: for the
wisdom of their wise men shall perish, aud [and] the understanding of their
prudent men shall be hid. And this he has done-

First; by inspiring the unlearned Joseph Smith, and giving him wisdom and
power from on high, with the means which were before prepared, to read and
translate the Book of Mormon, the words of which the learned Dr. Mitchel could
not read; thus the wisdom of the wise has perished and the understanding of
the prudent is hid.

Secondly.-By raising up and inspiring illiterate and unlearned men, and
sending them forth with the Book of Mormon in connection with the Bible, as an
ensign for the nations, to preach the fulness [fullness] of the gospel, and to
build up the kingdom of God on the earth, in direct opposition to all the
jarring systems of modern sectarianism, and giving them knowledge and wisdom
from on high, insomuch [inasmuch] that they have been enabled to confound,
astonish and bring to shame, confusion, and disgrace, every wise and learned
man who has dared to oppose them by fair arguments or candid investigation.

Thirdly.-It is a marvel and a wonder to this generation that this work has
spread so rapidly under the following circumstances: First, the men who were
engaged in preaching this doctrine were men of no influence, being the poor,
illiterate, and despised ones of the earth. Second,-they had not the
advantages of education which the most of the preachers of the different
denominations have. Third,-the advantages of that mighty engine, the press,
which all the Christian world are so highly blessed with, they were almost
wholly destitute of, while at the same time its power was put in requisition
against them in all parts of the land. It is true, they undertook, and did
publish a monthly periodical at diferent [different] times and places, but its
circulation was very limited, and their office, press and type have been three
times entirly [entirely] destroyed by mobs and incendiaries. Fourth,-they had
to sustain the shock of an overwhelming religious influence opposed to them by
the combined powers of every sect in America-they had to contend with the
prejudices of the ignorant and the pen of the learned, together with all the
lying slanders and misrepresentations which the devil and all his emissaries
on earth could invent; while at the same time the combined powers of earth and
hell were hurling a storm of persecution unparalelld [unparalleled] in the
history of the world. They were insulted by mobs, their houses torn down or
burned, their goods destroyed and fields of grain laid waste, some of them
were cast into dungeons and there kept for months loaded with chains. Yea
more-some of them were shot; others had their brains dashed out; others were
whipped to death; others were cut in pieces with swords knives, corn-cutters,
&c., while the whole society, at one time amounting to about 12 000 souls,
were banished from the State of Missouri and driven two hundred miles from
their lands, houses, homes and property, in the winter season, and this by the
order of the Executive of Missouri, one of the free and independent states of
this boasted republic. And the blood of many of these people now stains the
soil of Missouri because of their religious principles, in this their native
land; the land of boasted liberty and equal rights, whose officers, both of
the state and nation, have been deaf to the voice of innocence, imploring at
their feet for justice and protection in the enjoyment of their rights as
American citizens. And no doubt many of the instruments of these diabolical
proceedings verily thought they were doing God service, being inspired by the
press and pulpit, and encouraged by the officers of state; or what is still
worse, by the personal example of both officers of state and professed
preachers of the gospel, who were actually the leaders and abettors of all the
above horrible deeds. But under all these conflicting circumstances, this work
has spread and has penetrated every state in the Union from Maine to Missouri
as well as the Canadies [Canada's?]. It has reacheed [reached] the islands of
the sea-it has spread nearly all over England, and is now preached in Ireland,
Scotland and Wales-all this in the short space of ten years. Churches are
organized and conferences are held in all these regions, and the number of
disciples who have already embraced this work is from an hundred to an hundred
and twenty thousand. What but the arm of the Omnipotent could have moved it
forward thus! Under the conflicting circumstances referred to above, surely it
is a marvelous work and a wonder, causing the wisdom of the wise to perish and
the understanding of the prudent to be hid. But again, another feature about
this work which constitutes it marvelous and wonderful among the people of
this generation is, these preachers profess no authority from antiquity to
administer the gospel ordinances, but say that an angel has come down from the
midst of heaven, and conferred on them the priesthood and authority to preach
and administer the everlasting gospel unto them that dwell on the earth, and
to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, sayiug [saying] with a
loud voice, fear God and give glory to him for the hour of his judgement
[judgment] is come: and worship him that made heaven and earth and the sea and
the fountains of waters. (See Revelations 14th chap. 6th and 7th verses.) And
they profess to be apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors and teachers, all
inspired by the Holy Ghost, just like the ancient officers of the church and
kingdom of God-(See Ephesions [Ephesians] 4th chap. 11th 12th and 13th
verses.) Also the believers in this Book of Mormon, being baptized for the
remission of sins and receiving the laying on of hands by these apostles and
prophets, they speak with new tongues and prophesy, cast out devils, and
sometimes lay hands on the sick and they recover, and thus one has given him
by the Holy Ghost the word of wisdom, and another the word of knowledge, and
another faith, and another the gifts of healing, and another the working of
miracles, and another prophecy, and another the diserning [discerning] of
spirits, and another divers kinds of tongues, and another the interpretation
of tongues-just as was anciently given to the church of Christ. (See 1st Cor.
12th chap.) And in consequence of these gifts the blind are made to see, the
deaf to hear, the meek increase and their joy is in the Lord, and the poor
rejoice in the Holy One of Israel. Also, they that erred in spirit come to
understanding, and they that murmured learn doctrine. All these things are
marvelous to this generation because their fear towards God is taught by the
precepts of men, and they know nothing of inspiration or the power of God,
therefore they have a form of godliness but deny the power thereof. From such
says Paul turn away. (See 2nd Timothy iii: 1-9.)

