2. A CATACOMB OF MUMMIES FOUND IN KENTUCKY Lexington, in Kentucky, stands
nearly on the site of an ancient town, which was of great extent and
magnificence, as is amply evinced by the wide range of its circumvalliatory
works, and the quantity of ground it once occupied. There was connected with
the antiquities of this place, a catacomb, formed in the bowels of the
limestone rock, about fifteen feet below the surface of the earth, adjacent to
the town of Lexington. This grand object, so novel and extraordinary in this
country, was discovered in 1775, by some of the first settlers, whose
curiosity was excited by something remarkable in the character of the stones
which covered the entrance to the cavern within. They removed these stones,
and came to others of singular appearance for stones in a natural state; the
removal of which laid open the mouth a cave, deep, gloomy, and terrific, as
they supposed. With augmented numbers, and provided with light, they descended
and entered, without obstruction, a spacious apartment; the sides and extreme
ends were formed into niches and compartments, and occupied by figures
representing men. When alarm subsided, and the sentiment of dismay and
surprise permitted further research and inquiry, the figures were found to be
mummies, preserved by the art of embalming, to as great a state of perfection
as was known among the ancient Egyptians, eighteen hundred years before the
Christian era; which was about the time that the Israelites were in bondage in
Egypt, when this art was in its perfection. * * * * * On this subject Mr. Ash
has the following reflections: "How these bodies were embalmed, how long
preserved, by what nations, and from what people descended, no opinion made,
but what must result from speculative fancy and wild conjecture. For my part,
I am lost in the deepest ignorance. My reading affords me no knowledge, my
travels no light. I have neither read nor known of any of the North American
Indians who formed catacombs for their dead, or who were acquainted with the
art of preservation by embalming. Had Mr. Ash in his researches consulted the
Book of Mormon his problem would have been solved, and he would have found no
difficulty in accounting for the mummies being found in the above mentioned
case. The Book of Mormon gives an account of a number of the descendants of
Israel coming to this continent; and it is well known that the art of
embalming was known among the Hebrews, as well as among the Egyptians,
although perhaps not so generally among the former, as among the latter
people; and their method of embalming also might be different from that of the
Egyptians. Jacob and Joseph were no doubt, embalmed in the manner of the
Egyptians, as they died in that country, Gen. 1, 2, 3, 26. When our Saviour
[Savior] was crucified his hasty burial obliged them only to wrap his body in
linen with a hundred pounds of myrrh, aloes, and similar spices, (part of the
ingredients of embalming.) given by Nicodemus for that purpose: but Mary and
other holy women had prepared ointment and spices for embalming it, Matt.
xxviii. 59: Luke xxiii. 56: John xxx. 39-40. This art was no doubt transmitted
from Jerusalem to this continent, by the before mentioned emigrants, which
accounts for the finding of the mummies, and at the same time is another
strong evidence of the authenticity of the Book of Mormon.-[ED.

