As good news from a far country, like pure water to a thirsty traveller
[traveler], is very refreshing, so we have thought that a little space devoted
to Nauvoo, might afford some consolation to those that wish well to the cause
of Zion. It is one of the few comforts of the saints in this world, to be
settled in peace, and witness the raped [rapid] growth of their infant city,
as a place of safety and gathering for the last days. For three or four miles
upon the river and about the same distance back in the country, Nauvoo
presents a city of gardens, ornamented with the dwellings of those who have
made a covenant by sacrifice, and are guided by revelation, an exception to
all other societies upon the earth. There is a beautiful commandment and call
upon this subject in the fiftieth Psalm, as well as a prophecy of what the
Lord will do when he shines, the perfection of beauty out of Zion. The city of
Nauvoo is regularly laid off into blocks, containing four lots of eleven by
twelve rods each-making all corner lots. It will be no more than probably
correct, if we allow the city to contain between seven and eight hundred
houses, with a population of 14 or 15,000. Many of the recent built houses are
brick, some one story, and some two stories high, displaying that skill,
economy and industry which have always characterized intelligent minds and
laudable intentions. The first habitations, as well as many now reared for the
time being, in comparison with the expensive mansions of voluptuousness and
grandeur in old cities, may be termed "small" but when it is recollected that
a large portion of the saints have been "scattered and peeled" some two or
three times: and that, also, it is the 'fashion' of the world, to 'shave' them
close before they let them 'go to the land of promise,' (as hypocrites not
unfrequently [infrequently] name the place of gathering) no apology will be
needed. We can, therefore, of a truth declare, that within the same length of
time, and with the same amount of means, no society on the face of the globe,
has a better right to the claim of improvement by their own industry; or have
offered to their surrounding neighbors, a plainer pattern of mechanical skill,
domestic economy, practical temperance, common intelligence, every day virtue,
and eternal religion, than the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.
Such a statement of facts will be considered the simple truth, when it is
remembered that we are the only people upon the earth who profess to be
governed and guided by direct revelation from the Lord: And in this place let
us not forget to mention that important commandment which said: "And again,
inasmuch as there is land obtained, let there be workmen sent forth, of all
kinds, unto this land, to labor for the saints of God." Now who that has
witnessed the driving of the saints from place to place, and seen them in the
short space of two or three years, raise a town or a city, glowing with all
the arts, improvements, and curious workmen found any where upon the earth,
can doubt this revelation? One thing is certain, the elders must possess more
plausibility, discernment and ingenuity, to find out wise and skilful
[skillful] workmen, than has ever been the lot of the world, or else the
revelation is true,-and these elders are blessed with the spirit of God, to
assist in bringing to pass his act, his strange act. This light is not under a
bushel. Two steam mills have been put into operation this season, and many
other buildings for mechanical labor in the various branches of manufacture,
are either under way or in contemplation,-while the Temple of God, a work of
great magnitude, and the Nauvoo House, which when finished will hardly be
surpassed in the western world, are rising up as monuments of the enterprise,
industry and reverence of the commandments of God, of the saints in their
banishment from Missouri. As to mercantile business we have but little to
say:-The fewer foreign goods that are consumed among the saints, the better it
will be for home manufactories,-and the nearer we shall come to the word of
the Lord, which says: "Thou shalt not be proud in thy heart; let all thy
garments be plain, and their beauty the beauty of the work of thine own
hands." We have two presses doing as much as can be expected from the limited
resources of a people twice plucked up by the roots, and plundered, even to
their clothes, besides the loss of a good printing establishment. As far as
truth can be spread and lies contradicted by two presses, against several
thousand, it is done! and we have the gratification of saying that things seem
to work together for good to them that look for the second appearing of our
Lord Jesus Christ. Finally, brethren, as this world is not the place of much
happiness to the saints, on account of the great prevalence of the powers of
darkness upon the earth, and the wickedness and corruption of men's hearts, we
think we can not do better than say, that while other cities are secretly
practicing vice in its most horrid form, Nauvoo, like an infant at the breast
of its mother, is deriving its nourishment from that fountain of life which
invigorates youth without endangering the health; and we do sincerely hope,
that we as children of the kingdom, may keep the law of God, and the law of
the land, continuing steadfast in the liberty of the gospel, and ever
abounding in the knowledge of the Lord, knowing this, for grace and salvation,
that in the world there is no deliverance; no; nowhere but in Jerusalem, and
in Mount Zion, and in the remnant whom the Lord our God shall call. Nauvoo, at
present is, figuratively, the great fish market of the earth, where all kinds,
both good and bad, are gathered-where the good are preserved, and the bad cast
away-for until the savior comes, there will be wise virgins and
foolish;-blessed are they that continue to the end faithful, for whether they
have builded a city in Ohio, or Missouri, or Illinois, they shall enter into
the joys of their Lord, and inherit the kingdom prepared before the foundation
of the world.

