It will be recollected that a few months since an article appeared in several
of the papers, purporting to give an account of the origin of the Book of
Mormon. How far the writer of that piece has effected his purposes, or what
his purposes were, in pursuing the course he has, I shall not attempt to say
at this time, but I shall call upon every candid man to judge in this matter
for himself; I shall content myself by presenting before the public the other
side of the question, in the letter which follows.

...

You see by the above questions and answers, that Mr. Austin in his great zeal
to destroy the Latter Day Saints, has asked Mrs. Davieson a few questions, and
then wrote a letter to Mr. Storrs in his own language. I do not say, that the
above questions and answers were given in the form that I have written them,
but these are the substance of the questions asked, and the answers given.
Mrs. Davieson is about seventy years of age, and somewhat broke.

...

It may be proper to furnish the reader with an extract from Parley P.
Pratt’s answer to L.R. Sunderland’s "..." which will
prove beyond all question, unless his testimony with the others concerned is
proven false, that Sidney Rigdon never saw the Book of Mormon, till some time
after its publication.

"..."

Having said so much respecting the manuscript found, I shall add a few more
remarks, and then close the subject. Sufficient has already been said to prove
clearly to every candid mind, that the whole story is not reconcilable with
the facts, as stated by the originators themselves, and by its various
contradictions completely destroys itself and proves it to be a base
fabrication.

It is evident, from Hulbert’s own statement, that he obtained the manuscript
from Mrs. Davieson; but, after comparing it with the Book of Mormon, he found
there was no correspondence or similarity between them, either in style or
contents: therefore, to cover his own shame, he resorts to the supposition,
without a particle of presumptive evidence, that S. Spaulding had written a
different kind of novel, and the probability was, that it had been converted
into the Book of Mormon. Mr. Hulburt makes the following statement respecting
the manuscript which he had in his possession: "..." Now any one who has
read the Book of Mormon, knows that the contents are altogether dissimilar
from this description.

According to Mrs. Davieson’s account, the manuscript was given up to
Hulbert, on the condition that it should be printed, and one half of the
proceeds accruing be paid to her. But he afterwards writes to her, that the
manuscript did not read as he expected, and he should not print it. After all,
then, it appears the whole story is traced to the source, which is nothing
more than the ipse dixit of a vagabond, and a fugitive from justice, the
veritable D.P. Hulburt. This is the principal plea which is depended upon for
rejecting the Book of Mormon. Such, then, is the history of the Spaulding lie.
It no doubt has afforded many a pretext for rejecting the truth; but it never
prevented a sincere lover of truth from embracing the message which God has
sent again to the children of men. Why? Because they would search and prove
the matter for themselves without any regard to what others might do. I know
the Book of Mormon to be true; and all the inventions and slanders which the
Devil and his servants can invent, will never shake my faith in it. The
evidence on which it rests, cannot be overthrown. It will continue to roll on
with accelerated speed; and all opposition, no matter from what source
emanating, will be overcome, and crushed beneath its universal prevalence.

