The location of Zion or the New Jerusalem, is certainly a subject of
importance, and well worth a candid investigation: for it is one that
interested the prophets, and much the more it ought to interest every true
believer of this remote age of the world; for according to the prophets it
will be a place of refuge, and deliverance for the people of God when
destruction comes upon the nations. Again, the Lord not only intends to gather
all his people together in the last days, but he intends to prepare places for
them to gather to. The city of Zion is said to be one of these places of
gathering; therefore, it is of all importance that we should know where it
will be located or established.

That there will be a city called Zion or the New Jerusalem, built, beautified,
and prepared for the millennium is evident from all the prophets that have
mentioned the work of God of the last days. We have in a brief manner touched
upon this subject before; but the magnitude and importance of it is such, that
we think that justice to it, requires us to give it a more extensive
investigation.

That there was a Zion established at Jerusalem we do not wish to deny; but
that has nothing to do with the one for the millennium. However, because some
are unable to separate, or distinguish it from the one for the Millennium, we
will first show the difference between the two, and then proceed to examine
the prophets with respect to the place of the location of the latter.

This Zion at Jerusalem was sometimes called the upper city, and it was
detached from Jerusalem proper by a wall. Historians say that Jerusalem was
founded by Melchizedeck, then called Salem. Paul says Melchizedek was king of
Salem. (See Heb. vii. 2.) Subsequently it was called Jerusalem; but whether or
not Zion was founded by Melchizedek is not easy for us to determine; but one
thing is certain, it was in existence in the days of David; for when he took
Jerusalem from the Jebusites, it is said that he “took a strong hold of
Zion: the same is the city of David.”—2 Sam. v. 7. Many places in the
inspired writings where Zion is mentioned, refer to this Zion at Jerusalem.
Isaiah speaking of this Zion says: “For the people shall dwell in Zion at
Jerusalem.”—Isa. xxx. 19. Now if Isaiah had no idea of any other Zion;
than the one at Jerusalem, why did he use the preposition at, as though there
was another city called by the same name? Indeed, he knew that the Lord would
cause to be built another city of Zion, which should be a place of deliverance
in the last days, which he saw in the vision established upon this land
[America]; therefore, he used the preposition, “Zion at Jerusalem,” to
designate the difference between it and the one of the last days upon another
land. But says one, if the ancients knew that God would establish another Zion
for the Millennium, [213] why did they call the one at Jerusalem by that name?
This is a thing that the scriptures in a measure leave in the dark; however,
there is a foundation for an opinion, which we will give whether it is correct
or not. Zion is a very ancient name, and signifies the pure in heart, or the
place where the pure in heart dwell; and according to recent revelations which
the Lord has given to his people, there was a Zion established in the days of
Enoch wherein the church of the first-born dwelt: and perhaps, Paul alludes to
this Zion of Enoch when he says: “But ye are come unto Mount Sion, and into
the city of the living

God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels, to the
general assembly and the church of the first-born.”—Heb. xii. 22, 23. The
saints of the Antediluvian world, are the only ones that we can with propriety
call the church of the first-born; but they and their Zion are in heaven; and
Paul calls their Zion the city of God, and them the church of the first-born.

Now it is possible that when Melchizedek, or whoever founded Zion; when
arranging the various districts, and suburbs of Jerusalem, called that
district, or the upper city, which was so beautiful and elevated, “Mount
Zion,” out of respect to a former Zion, and because of the pureness of the
name; the same as many name their children after eminent men, and those whom
they in a particular manner respect. After David it was called “the city of
David.”

When Jerusalem is rebuilt, it is probable that this city of David, will also
be built again; but not in fulfillment of the predictions of the prophets
concerning the establishment of the latter-day Zion or the New Jerusalem; but
in fulfillment of prophecy relating to the rebuilding of Jerusalem: for when
it is built of course all its districts and suburbs will also be built. But we
have said enough upon this part of the subject, and we hope that the reader
will be able to designate the difference between the Zion which was at
Jerusalem, and the one that the Lord shall cause to be built for the saints to
gather to, and be a place of refuge and deliverance at the time that God will
trouble the nations with his wrath.

This Zion of the last days, we believe will be located on the land of America;
and indeed, the prophets have said enough to establish this idea. David says:
“Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth, is Mount Zion, on the
sides of the North, the city of the great King. God is known in her palaces
for a refuge.” “As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the Lord
of hosts, in the city of our God: God will establish it for ever.”—Ps.
xlviii. 2–8. David evidently saw the situation of Zion, which he says is
beautiful, at some other place besides Jerusalem, or he would not have said
that it was on the sides of the North. Match this saying with what Isaiah says
in the xviii,∗ of his prophecy, concerning a land [America] beyond the
rivers of Ethiopia, and we learn: first, as Isaiah says, that this is the land
where [214] the Lord’s ensign of the last days was to be reared, and from
whence the ambassadors of the Lord are to be sent to all nations, and where
“the place of the name of the Lord of hosts, the Mount Zion” shall be
established, to which the servants of God, or swift messengers to the nations
shall bring a present unto the Lord of a people terrible from their beginning.
This proves that Zion is to be located in America. Second, that, according to
David, it is to be on the sides of the North; consequently, on North America.
David says in another place: “I will not give sleep to my eyes nor slumber
to mine eyelids until I find out a place for the Lord, an habitation for the
mighty God of Jacob. Lo, we heard of it at Ephrata; we found it in the fields
of the wood.” “For the Lord hath chosen Zion: he hath desired it for his
habitation.”—Ps. cxxxii. 4–13. It cannot be said in truth that Jerusalem
was in the fields of the wood in David’s time; therefore, we conclude that
he had reference to some other place besides Jerusalem. Indeed, the interior
of North America is interspersed with the fields of the woods, or in other
words fields in the midst of the wilderness. Isaiah says: “Zion is a
wilderness, Jerusalem a desolation.”

∗ We have before entered into a full investigation of this chapter;
therefore, we do not deem it necessary to make any more comment upon it. (See
page 182.)

We have before proved the Book of Mormon to be true; therefore, whatever it
says upon this subject we consider as valid testimony. Moroni writing the
words of Ether says, page 550. “Behold, Ether saw the days of Christ, and he
spake concerning a New Jerusalem upon this land; and he spake also concerning
the House of Israel, and the Jerusalem from whence Lehi should come; after it
be destroyed, it should be built up again a holy city unto the Lord; wherefore
it could not be a New Jerusalem, for it had been in a time of old, but it
should be built up again and become a holy city of the Lord: and should be
built up unto the House of Israel; and that a New Jerusalem should be built up
upon this land, unto the remnant of the seed of Joseph, for which things there
has been a type: for as Joseph brought his father down into the land of Egypt,
even so he died there; wherefore the Lord brought a remnant of the seed of
Joseph out of the land of Jerusalem that he mtght be merciful unto the seed of
Joseph, that they should perish not, even as he was merciful unto the father
of Joseph, that he should perish not; wherefore the remnant of the House of
Joseph shall be built upon this land; and it shall be a land of their
inheritance; and they shall build up a holy city unto the Lord, like unto the
Jerusalem of old; and they shall no more be confounded, until the end come,
when the earth shall pass away.”

As we have before mentioned the prophets have declared that there shall be
deliverance for the saints in Mount Zion, and in Jerusalem; therefore, when we
take all things into consideration, we discover that it is perfectly
consistent with reason and the scriptures, for Zion to be built upon this
continent: for this is a promised land to the tribe of Joseph, as much so as
Canaan to the House of Israel. For instance, the Lord will establish a place
of gathering upon this land, near the [215] centre of the North division of
the continent, which will be convenient for the House of Joseph that is upon
this land to gather to, and also, for many of the saints that are now
scattered among the Gentile nations. And also he will cause the old city of
Jerusalem to be rebuilt, and the Jews to gather there. Thus there will be two
central places of gathering, and deliverance. Zion, and Jerusalem, when spoken
of as being the two great places of deliverance, are not synonymous: for
Jerusalem and its suburbs when spoken of at a distance are all ranked under
the one head; but the prophets speak of Zion as being established, and having
stakes, or auxiliary cities. The city of David or Zion at Jerusalem was merely
an auxiliary and not the principal. Isaiah places this matter beyond doubt,
that Zion and Jerusalem are not synonymous; but on two separate lands. “For
Zion’s sake will I not hold my peace, and for Jerusalem’s sake I will not
rest, until the righteousness thereof go forth as brightness, and the
salvation thereof, as a lamp that burneth. And the Gentiles shall see thy
righteousness, and all kings thy glory; and thou shalt be called by a new
name, which the mouth of the Lord shall name. Thou shalt also be a crown of
glory in the hand of the Lord, and a royal diadem in the hand of thy God. Thou
shalt no more be termed Forsaken: neither shall thy land any more be termed
Desolate; but thou shalt be called Hephzi-bah, and thy land Bulah: for the
Lord delighteth in thee, and thy land shall be married.” It is said, Gen. x.
25, that in the days of Peleg the earth (not nations) was divided; it is also
said, Gen. i. 9, that the waters were gathered together unto one place at the
time of the creation; and of course the land was in one place; but it is
manifest that there has been a great division, so much so that the earth has
been divided into continents, which the bible says was done in the days of
Peleg; but according to the prophet Isaiah, when the time of restoration
comes, then this continent upon which Zion shall be built,

shall re-unite with the eastern, and thus fulfill the saying, “thy land
shall be married,” or Joined. But says the objector, how can there be two
places of gathering if Ezekiel’s words are true? “And I will make them one
nation upon the mountains of Israel; and one king shall be king to them
all.” We have before proved that the land of America is a promised land to
the House of Joseph;∗ therefore, the “mountains of Israel” are here as
much so as in the land of Canaan. The idea is that the whole earth will be
subjected to one form of government, and to one code of laws, and one king
shall rule over them whether in America or in Asia. But the two continents are
to be united, and then it will be an easy thing for them to become one nation
upon the mountains (not mountain) of Israel, and at the same time the tribe of
Joseph and others dwell in Zion, and its vicinity upon this land, and the Jews
in the land of Canaan, and one king rule over them all. [216]

Having dropped the foregoing hints upon the location of the Zion for the
Millennium, to aid the reader to designate the difference between the Zion at
Jerusalem, and the one of the Latter-days:—we will now quote a few of the
sayings of the prophets concerning the utility of this Zion, the materials of
which it shall be built, its glory, and magnificence, &c., &c., and let that
suffice for the present.

