While I ponder upon the history of the past, my reflections settle upon the situation of the human family some ten or twelve years ago, when the genius of liberty hovered over the land, and the sons of Columbia enjoyed peace. When the professors of the religion of heaven, were supposing themselves to be in good case, and many were praying for the day when the knowledge of God should cover the earth as the waters cover the sea. And for that long expected happy day, called the Millennium. Yet, like the Jews of old, they had all digressed from the ancient order of things that Jesus established while on the earth. And no sooner did the great God speak once more from on high, and cause the light of heaven to shine once more on the benighted world, and truth to break forth in all its brilliancy and splendour, and restore the gospel to its primitive purity, and the weak things of this world were chosen to confound the wise, and things that were ignoble in the eyes of the world, were filled with the wisdom and power of the Sovereign of the Universe, that they might confound the wise, and the great, and the noble. No sooner was this accomplished, than the people began to rage, and the priests and professors began to imagine a vain thing, and circulate all manner of falsehoods respecting Joseph Smith, Jr., and others, to blast their characters, and render the society odious in the minds of the people at large. All this because this work of God commenced in a different way from the one they had marked out for it to come; and moreover, because it condemned and overthrew, for ever, their creeds and systems, which was precisely the case with the Jews in the days of Christ. Therefore they sought to destroy it, and as truth will not destroy truth, the only weapon that could be used against it, was falsehood. Something must be done or attempted, so to work they went, with the vain hope of being able to crush and destroy the whole work, and bury it in everlasting oblivion. Abortive hope! The God of Israel was the founder and upholder of the undertaking; the time had rolled round when the prophecies must be fulfilled; and who can stay the hand of Omnipotence? When God works, who can hinder? However, they succeeded in creating an impression in the community, unfavourable to men, as innocent as Jeremiah of old. Joseph Smith, Jr., was especially singled out as the object of their incessant malice and revilings. This encouraged the rabble, and gave countenance to the emissaries of the Devil, and the consequence was, they set themselves on men whom God had made use of, to bring about his great and marvelous purposes of the last days; whom they persecuted from place to place, and drove from their homes, and made to seek a shelter in the wilderness, and solitary places. Indeed, the scenes of persecution and suffering that the members of the church of Jesus Christ, of Latter Day Saints, have passed through, is enough to make one’s heart ache. I ask the question, Why all of this? The lies, and slanders of priest and professors, is the answer. Notwithstanding, however, all the exertions that have been made to stop the progress of the work, it has rolled on in might and majesty, and the priests began to say, if we let these men alone all the people will believe on them, and our craft, by which we live, will be exposed and set at naught. Our creeds, our tracts, our commentaries, and expositions will all be esteemed as useless fables: our salaries will be stopped, and all our secret works of darkness disclosed, and brought to light. Under the influence of such powerful incentives to action, they, with one accord, began to make one general effort to put down the truth. Newspapers began to be filled with abusive articles; and all manner of falsehoods and misstatements were freely circulated, from one end of the country to the other. Through this means were the storms of persecution created, and fanned into a flame.

I remember the scenes of affliction and suffering, that have rested on the church in the state of Missouri. First, twelve hundred souls driven from Jackson county, in the cold and inclemency of the season; some murdered, others whipped and dragged from their homes, and otherwise ill treated; their property destroyed, and women and children compelled to abandon their peaceful homes, and seek a shelter in the howling wilderness; while the men were hunted like the wild beasts of the forest. Why all this? The answer is still, the falsehood of priests, and other evil and designing men, inflamed the rabble to commit these acts of enormity, on an innocent and inoffensive people.

I well remember the time, when twelve or fifteen thousand souls were driven from the state of Missouri. This was also produced by the same means. Indeed it was falsehood and slander that brought the malice of the Jews on the heads of Jesus, excited by his exposure of their hypocrisy and priestcraft.

When I call to mind, that from twenty-five to thirty noble hearted brethren have fallen victims to a ruthless and ungodly mob, in the state of Missouri, I cannot help exclaiming, Oh! murdered, butchered brethren, dear to my heart, once we enjoyed each other’s company in the house of the Lord; and sat under the smiles of our Redeemer’s countenance, and expressed our determination to each other to serve the Lord unto the end, if death should stare us in the face.

The time of trial found them true to their promise, and they died as valiant hearted soldiers of the cross. And widows and orphans are left to mourn their loss. Yes, if the sturdy oaks of Missouri forest could speak, they would tell a tale of woe, how widows and orphans bemoaned  while under their branches, because of the loss of husbands and fathers.

If the wild gophers of Missouri’s plains could speak, they would tell of the sufferings of women and children, which would soften the heart of an adamantine, and cause a flood of tears to flow from the hard hearted.

Oh liberty, whither art thou fled? Oh patriotism whither art thou gone? Once the United States of America, was a land of freedom, liberty of speech, and of the press; liberty of conscience was enjoyed really, and not merely in name. Now so no longer. The blessings purchased by the blood of our forefathers, have flown for ever! That blood which was shed so freely, for the purchase of an inheritance, which they esteemed sufficiently worthy of the sacrifice, now no longer avails. The constitution formed and ratified by the fathers of our country, who esteemed it dearer than life, is now a dead letter. The blessings of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness are no longer guaranteed to the citizen. Nor can he any longer worship God, according to the dictates of his own conscience, unmolested.

The history of the church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, has woefully verified this fact. To heighten the wrong, it has all come upon them, in consequence of their adhesion to the truth. Say not it is deception, delusion, fanaticism, or if you do, take care you apply it where it belongs, that is, to those who ascribe these qualities to the church of Latter Day Saints. If they are deceived, the Bible has deceived them; but they know and dare boldly testify, the religion of the Bible is no deception, it is an eternal reality. Therefore, examin the matter for yourselves, and “…”