W. Woodruff, Journal, Nov 28 1841 to June 18, 1842
Kraut transcription at https://archive.org/stream/WoodruffWilfordJournalSelections/Woodruff_Wilford_Journal_Selections_djvu.txt

November 28, 1841: Sunday I spent the day at B. Young's in company with 
Joseph and the Twelve in conversing upon a variety of subjects. It was an 
interesting day. Elder Joseph Fielding was present; he had been in England 
four years. We also saw a number of English brethren. Joseph said the Book of 
Mormon was the most correct of any book on earth and the keystone of our 
religion and a man would get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts than any other book. 

November 30, 1841: I spent some time with Joseph and the Twelve. Joseph says 
Sister Hyde must live with Bro. E. Robinson and if they receive them kindly 
and patiently, it shall prove a great blessing, unto them. 

December 5, 1841: In the evening we walked to Bro. Joseph's and spent several 
hours at his house on a visit and had a pleasant stay with him and Sister 
Emma. Bro. Joseph had commenced this day to proofread the Book of Mormon that 
it might be sterotyped. He read 60 pages. He rehearsed over the Missouri 
transactions, spoke of the death of David W. Patten and the request which he 
made of him in his last dying moments. Joseph will grant it if God will. 

December 7, 1841: I spent most of my time in the store but in the evening I 
attended meeting and heard a discourse delivered by Lyman Wight who declared 
some most stirring truths concerning the building of the Temple and the Nauvoo 
House. If the Saints did not do it, they would be rejected as a church with 
their dead, saith the Lord. We should again be driven, too. He spoke in truth 
and the spirit of God. 

December 25, 1841: Christmas Day was an interesting day indeed. The Twelve 
were invited to a Christmas [16] supper at Mr. Hyrum Kimball's. It was 
excellent sleighing and I got a horse and sleigh and carried the wives of the 
Twelve to Mr. Kimball's and home again. After our meeting broke up, our 
company consisted of B. Young, H.C. Kimball, 0. Pratt, W. Richards, John 
Taylor, and W. Woodruff. All with our wives except W. Richards who waited upon Sister Hyde. We had an excellent feast and before we left, Mr. Kimball made 
each one of the Twelve a present of a lot of land and made out a bond for a 
deed of the whole Quorum, each lot worth $50, making $600 in all. My lot was 
No. 4, Block 12 in Kimball second addition to Nauvoo, a warrantee deed to be 
given on or before the 5th day of June A.D. 1842. 

December 27, 1841: The Twelve or a part of them spent the day with Joseph the 
Seer and he unfolded unto them many glorious things of the kingdom of God, the 
privileges and blessings of the priesthood, etc. I had the privilege of seeing 
for the first time in my day the Urim and Thummim. 

January 16, 1842: ... in the evening I married Thomas Jones and Mary Moyle. 

February 8, 1842: A revelation was given a few days since for the Twelve to 
obtain the printing establishment of E. Robinson and govern the printing of 
the Times and Seasons and all the Church publications as they are directed by 
my Holy Spirit in the midst of their councils saith the Lord. 

After consulting upon the subject the quorum appointed Elders J. Taylor 
and W. Woodruff of the Twelve to edit the Times and Seasons and take charge of 
the whole establishment under the direction of Joseph the Seer. Accordingly, I 
left my station at the Nauvoo [17] Provision Store and commenced this day to 
labour for the Church in the printing establishment. 

January 4, 1842: I spent the day with Bro. Taylor in finishing the invoice of 
the printing establishment, books and stationary, and in the evening we again 
met at Joseph's store and E. Robinson made out the deed to W. Richards of his 
lot and house containing the printing establishment and all appurtenances 
belonging thereto, amounting in all to $6,600. 

January 17, 1842: A special City Council was called and among the business of 
the day a law was passed regulating marriage. Joseph the Seer made many 
interesting remarks concerning our privileges. Council adjourned to next day 
evening . 

March 20, 1842: Part of the remarks of Joseph Smith on the resurrection, "As 
concerning the resurrection, I will merely say that all men will come from the 
grave as they lay down, whether old or young, there will not be added unto 
their stature one cubit neither taken from it. All being raised by the power 
of God having the spirit of God in their bodies and not blood. Children will 
be enthroned in the presence of God and the Lamb with bodies of the same 
stature that were on earth, having been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb, 
they will there enjoy a fulness of that light, glory and intelligence which is 
received in the celestial kingdom of God." 

May 15, 1842: Sunday, True information has just reached us that the noted 
Governor Boggs of Missouri who by his orders expelled ten thousand Latter-day 
Saints, has just been assassinated in his own house and fallen in his own 
blood. Three balls were shot through his head, two through his brains and one 
through his [18] mouth, tongue and throat. Thus this ungodly wretch has fallen 
in the midst of his iniquity and the vengeance of God has overtaken him at 
last, and he has met his just deserts though by an unknown hand. This 
information is proclaimed through all the papers and by dispatched messengers 
and hand bills through the land. Thus Boggs hath died as a fool dieth and gone 
to his place to receive the reward of his works. 

May 27, 1842: The First Presidency, The Twelve and High Council and virtuous 
part of the Church are making an exhortation a lot these days to cleanse the 
Church from adulterers, fornicators and evil persons for there are such 
persons crept into our midst. The high council have held a number of meetings 
of late and their researches have disclosed much iniquity and a number have 
been cut off from the Church. I met with the High Council today on the trial 
of L. 0. Littlefield, Joel S. Miles and Darwin Chase. The two former were cut 
off for adultery and the case of D. Chase was put off til tomorrow. 

June 18, 1842: Also Joseph commanded the Twelve to organize the Church more 
according to the Law of God, that is to require of those that come in to be 
settled according to their council and also to appoint a committee to wait 
upon all who arrive and make them welcome and counsel them what to do. B. 
Young, H. C. Kimball, G. A. Smith, and Hyrum Smith were the committee 
appointed to wait upon emigrants and settle them.